Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus are reported to be at a high risk for sarcopenia, and are known to have a poorer sleep quality. However, the association between sleep quality and skeletal muscle in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is not yet precisely understood.
A total of 110 inpatients with type 2 diabetes mellitus aged 40–90 years were enrolled. The sleep quality was assessed using the Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI). Skeletal muscle mass was measured using bioelectrical impedance analysis. Muscle strength was evaluated by measuring the grip strength. We also performed dietary surveys and measurements of the plasma amino acid levels.
A high total score on the PSQI was significantly associated with reduced muscle strength, and the association persisted even after adjustments for confounders. On the other hand, adjusted analysis did not reveal any significant associations between the PSQI total score and the skeletal muscle mass. In regard to the associations with subscores of the PSQI, the scores for sleep latency, sleep efficiency, and daytime dysfunction were significantly negatively associated with the muscle strength. Although poor sleep quality was associated with a high confectionery intake and low plasma arginine, citrulline, and ornithine levels, neither confectionery intake levels nor the plasma levels of these amino acids was associated with the muscle strength.
Our study revealed a significant association between the sleep quality and muscle strength in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. These results suggest that poor sleep quality is an important risk factor for sarcopenia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus are reported to be at a high risk for sarcopenia, and are known to have a poorer sleep quality. Our study revealed a significant association between the sleep quality and muscle strength in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. These results suggest that poor sleep quality is an important risk factor for sarcopenia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.