In Ethiopia, gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a significant public health issue and a risk to maternal and child health. Understanding the prevalence and factors of GDM in Ethiopia may also help determine the best interventions. Therefore, we tried to review gestational diabetes and its factors in Ethiopia.AQ: Please check and confirm the edit made to the article title.yes i have checked and confirm
The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) instrument was used to conduct the review. In order to report on the prevalence and contributing factors of gestational diabetes mellitus, the following databases were used: Google Scholar, PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus, Web of Sciences, and Grey literature. Pilo-tests were conducted using a standardized data gathering form in research using a random sample. All statistical analyses were performed using STATA version 16 software for Windows and the random-effects meta-analysis method. The results are presented using texts, tables, and forest plots, along with measure of effect and a 95% confidence interval.Affiliations: Please confirm if the author names are presented accurately and in the correct sequence (given name, middle name/initial, family name). Author Given name: [Fentahun Yenealem], Last name [Beyene], Given name: [Bekalu Getnet], Last name [Kassa], Given name: [Gedefaye Nibret], Last name [Mihretie], Given name: [Alemu Degu], Last name [Ayele].yes checked and corrected AQ: Is this word Pilo-tests spelled correctly throughout the article?Thank you the correction Affiliations: Please check and confirm whether the city name is correctly identified for the affiliation 2.yes checked and corrected 
Out of 1755 records, 10 studies with 6525 participants that fully satisfy the inclusion criteria were included for the meta-analysis. The pooled prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus in Ethiopia was 12.04% [95% CI (8.17%, 15.90%)]. Inadequate dietary diversity, high body mass index, having a family history of DM, history of having macrosomic neonate, low physical activity, and previous history of GDM were statistically significant.AQ: Please note that the sentence Inadequate dietary diversity, high body mass index… is repeated under the below heading Conclusion.yes checked and corrected 
The pooled prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus is high in Ethiopia. Inadequate dietary diversity, high body mass index, having a family history of DM, history of having macrosomic neonate, low physical activity and previous history of GDM were statically significant variables. Emphasize on early screening, prenatal care and all women having risk factors and trying to get pregnant should get screens for diabetes to improve the maternal and child health at large.AQ: Please check the clarity of the sentence Emphasize on early screening, prenatal…it is clear and easly understand the readers
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s40001-023-01088-5.