The coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pandemic has prompted the development of new vaccines to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with this disease. Recognition and report of potential adverse effects of these novel vaccines (especially the urgent and life-threatening ones) is therefore essential.
A 16-year-old boy presented to the Paediatric Emergency Department with polyuria, polydipsia and weight loss over the last four months. His past medical history was unremarkable. Onset of symptoms was referred to be few days after first dose of anti-COVID-19 BNT162b2 Comirnaty vaccine and then worsened after the second dose. The physical exam was normal, without neurological abnormalities. Auxological parameters were within normal limits. Daily fluid balance monitoring confirmed polyuria and polydipsia. Biochemistry laboratory analysis and urine culture were normal. Serum osmolality was 297 mOsm/Kg H2O (285-305), whereas urine osmolality was 80 mOsm/Kg H2O (100-1100), suggesting diabetes insipidus. Anterior pituitary function was preserved. Since parents refused to give consent to water deprivation test, treatment with Desmopressin was administered and confirmed ex juvantibus diagnosis of AVP deficiency (or central diabetes insipidus). Brain MRI revealed pituitary stalk thickening (4 mm) with contrast enhancement, and loss of posterior pituitary bright spot on T1 weighted imaging. Those signs were consistent with neuroinfundibulohypophysitis. Immunoglobulin levels were normal. Low doses of oral Desmopressin were sufficient to control patient’s symptoms, normalizing serum and urinary osmolality values and daily fluid balance at discharge. Brain MRI after 2 months showed stable thicken pituitary stalk and still undetectable posterior pituitary. Due to persistence of polyuria and polydipsia, therapy with Desmopressin was adjusted by increasing dosage and number of daily administrations. Clinical and neuroradiological follow-up is still ongoing.
Hypophysitis is a rare disorder characterized by lymphocytic, granulomatous, plasmacytic, or xanthomatous infiltration of the pituitary gland and stalk. Common manifestations are headache, hypopituitarism, and diabetes insipidus. To date, only time correlation between SARS-CoV-2 infection and development of hypophysitis and subsequent hypopituitarism has been reported. Further studies will be needed to deepen a possible causal link between anti-COVID-19 vaccine and AVP deficiency.