With the clinical increase in Type 2 Diabetes worldwide, several interventions to decrease its incidence have been investigated. One such intervention is Vitamin D supplementation, as it affects Insulin secretion from the pancreas and Insulin receptors in the cells of the body. This systematic review addresses whether or not Vitamin D supplementation has a role in reducing the risk of developing Type 2 Diabetes. Systematic searches were conducted on PubMed, and Cochrane Library mainly but also checked Google Scholar. Randomized controlled trials, systematic trials and cohort studies were retrieved that included keywords pertaining to Vitamin D supplementation and the incidence of Type 2 Diabetes. Exclusion criteria included studies that looked at different forms of Diabetes, studies including patients aged less than 18 or more than 85 years of age and studies that were not English language. For all the trials identified, the incidence of Type 2 Diabetes among the cohort receiving vitamin D supplementation was compared to the cohort receiving placebo medication. Additionally, the Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR) was analyzed to observe if there was a difference between Insulin resistance among these two cohorts between the start of the trials and the end. Thirteen randomized controlled trials were identified. Seven of these identified incidences of Type 2 Diabetes as a research outcome, out of which six showed no statistically significant impact of vitamin D on the incidence of Type 2 Diabetes. Out of the 13 trials, 10 analyzed the impact of vitamin D supplementation on patients’ HOMA-IR. In six of these trials, patients receiving vitamin D supplementation had a decrease in their HOMA-IR, while it increased in 4 trials. In seven of the ten trials that analyzed for HOMA-IR, the HOMA-IR was less in the vitamin D cohort than the placebo cohort. There is insufficient evidence to suggest that vitamin D supplementation significantly reduces the incidence of Type 2 Diabetes despite its effects on insulin resistance. Further research in this area would be helpful in order to influence clinical guidelines on vitamin D supplementation among patients at risk of Type 2 Diabetes.