This review contextualizes hyperglycemia in pregnancy from a South-African perspective. It aims to create awareness of the importance of hyperglycemia in pregnancy in low-middle-income countries. We address unanswered questions to guide future research on sub-Saharan African women with hyperglycemia first detected in pregnancy (HFDP). South African women of childbearing age have the highest prevalence of obesity in sub-Saharan Africa. They are predisposed to Type 2 diabetes (T2DM), the leading cause of death in South African women. T2DM remains undiagnosed in many African countries, with two-thirds of people living with diabetes unaware. With the South African health policy’s increased focus on improving antenatal care, women often gain access to screening for non-communicable diseases for the first time in pregnancy. While screening practices and diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) differ amongst geographical areas in South Africa (SA), hyperglycemia of varying degrees is often first detected in pregnancy. This is often erroneously ascribed to GDM, irrespective of the degree of hyperglycemia and not overt diabetes. T2DM and GDM convey a graded increased risk for the mother and fetus during and after pregnancy, with cardiometabolic risk accumulating across the lifespan. Resource limitations and high patient burden have hampered the opportunity to implement accessible preventative care in young women at increased risk of developing T2DM in the broader public health system in SA. All women with HFDP, including those with true GDM, should be followed and undergo glucose assessment postpartum. In SA, studies conducted early postpartum have noted persistent hyperglycemia in a third of women after GDM. Interpregnancy care is advantageous and may attain a favourable metabolic legacy in these young women, but the yield of return following delivery is suboptimal. We review the current best evidence regarding HFDP and contextualize the applicability in SA and other African or low-middle-income countries. The review identifies gaps and shares pragmatic solutions regarding clinical factors that may improve awareness, identification, diagnosis, and management of women with HFDP.