Congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a disease characterized by failure of the kidney to concentrate urine in response to vasopressin. Human kindreds with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus have been found to harbor mutations in the vasopressin receptor 2 (Avpr2) gene or the vasopressin-sensitive water channel aquaporin-2 (Aqp2) gene. Development of a treatment is rendered difficult due to the lack of a viable animal model. Through forward genetic screening of ethylnitrosourea-mutagenized mice, we report the identification and characterization of a mouse model of NDI, with an F204V mutation in the Aqp2 gene. Unlike previously attempted murine models of NDI, our mice survive to adulthood and more exactly recapitulate the human disorder. Previous in vitro experiments using renal cell lines suggest recessive Aqp2 mutations result in improper trafficking of the mutant water pore. Using these animals, we have directly proven this hypothesis of improper AQP2 translocation as the molecular defect in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in the intact organism. Additionally, using a renal cell line we show that the mutated protein, AQP2-F204V, is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum and that this abnormal localization can be rescued by wild-type protein. This novel mouse model allows for further mechanistic studies as well as testing of pharmacological and gene therapies for NDI.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a disease marked by excessive urination and thirst. Normally, the hypothalamus senses situations where water is limited and signals to the kidney to increase water reabsorption from urine. The signaling molecule secreted by the hypothalamus is arginine vasopressin (AVP), which binds to a specific protein on the surface of kidney cells, AVP receptor (AVPR2). AVP binding to its receptor on kidney cells begins a series of biochemical events that ultimately results in the insertion of a protein, aquaporin 2 (AQP2), into the outer surface of the kidney cell. As its name suggests, AQP2 facilitates the reuptake of water from the urinary space into the cell, thus concentrating the urine and conserving water. Congenital NDI is caused by mutations in either the water channel, AQP2, or in the receptor, AVPR2. While these mutations have been studied extensively in the lab, work in live animals has been very limited. This report describes the first viable mouse model of NDI. Previous models have been attempted by targeted mutation, i.e., genes known to be involved in the disease have been altered in the mouse, a so-called reverse genetic approach. Reverse genetic approaches have so far failed to produce a viable mouse model of NDI. Here the authors take a forward genetic approach in which genes are mutated at random and animals are screened for disease-like properties. As well as proving hypotheses that come from lab studies, this model opens the door to the testing of gene therapy or other therapies for treatment of NDI.