Combined central diabetes insipidus and cerebral salt wasting syndrome is a rare clinical finding. However, when this happens, mortality is high due to delayed diagnosis and/or inadequate treatment.
A 42-year-old white man was referred to neurosurgery due to a non-functional pituitary macroadenoma. He underwent a partial resection of the tumor on July 2, 2015. On the day following surgery he presented polyuria with sodium 149 mEq/L, plasma osmolality 301 mOsm/kg, and urine osmolality 293 mOsm/kg. He started nasal desmopressin 0.05 mg/day with good response. He was already on dexamethasone 4 mg and levothyroxine 75 mcg due to hypopituitarism after surgery. On July 9 he became confused. Cerebral computed tomography was performed with no significant changes. His natremia dropped to 128 mEq/L with development of polyuria despite maintenance of desmopressin dose. His hemoglobin and hematocrit rose from 9.1 g/L to 11.6 g/L and 27.5 to 32.5, respectively. His thyroid function was normal and he was on hydrocortisone 30 mg/day. At 12 p.m. 150 mg/hydrocortisone infusion was initiated, but sodium did not increase. Plasma and urine osmolality were 264 mOsm/kg and 679 mOsm/kg, respectively. At 4 p.m. hydrocortisone was increased and hypertonic saline replacement started. Two hours later he was dehydrated with polyuria and vomiting, and natremia of 124 mEq/L. Hyponatremia was very resistant to treatment despite hypertonic saline replacement, hence desmopressin was suspended. The following day, urine spot analysis showed that natriuresis was 63 mEq/L with serum sodium 132 mEq/L. This was interpreted as a cerebral salt wasting syndrome and control was achieved with aggressive hypertonic saline replacements and fludrocortisone 0.1 mg/three times a day. 
We present a rare case of a patient with diabetes insipidus and cerebral salt wasting syndrome, who was successfully treated. Hyponatremia in a patient with diabetes insipidus may erroneously be interpreted as inadequate diabetes insipidus control or as syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, leading to therapeutic errors. Thus, all clinical and analytical data should be evaluated together for early and correct diagnosis.