Wolfram syndrome (WFS) is a rare autosomal recessive disease with clinical manifestations of diabetes mellitus (DM), diabetes insipidus (DI), optic nerve atrophy (OA) and sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). Although SNHL is a key symptom of WFS, there is limited information on its natural history using standardized measures. Such information is important for clinical care and determining its use as an outcome measure in clinical trials.
Standardized audiologic measures, including pure-tone testing, tympanometry, speech perception, and the unaided Speech Intelligibility Index (SII) were assessed in patients with confirmed WFS annually. Mixed model analyses were used to examine main effects of age, time or interactions for pure tone average (PTA), high frequency average (HFA) and SII.
Forty WFS patients were evaluated between 1 and 6 times. Mean age at initial enrollment was 13.5 years (SD = 5.6). Patients were classified as having normal hearing (n = 10), mild-to-severe (n = 24) or profound SNHL (n = 6). Mean age of diagnosis for SNHL was 8.3 years (SD = 5.1) with 75% prevalence. HFA worsened over time for both ears, and SII worsened over time in the worse ear, with greater decline in both measures in younger patients. Average estimated change over 1 year for all measures was in the subclinical range and power analyses suggest that 100 patients would be needed per group (treatment vs. placebo) to detect a 60% reduction in annual change of HFA over 3 years. If trials focused on just those patients with SNHL, power estimates suggest 55 patients per group would be sufficient.
Most patients had a slow progressive SNHL emerging in late childhood. Change over time with standard audiologic tests (HFA, SII) was small and would not be detectable for at least 2 years in an individual. Relatively large sample sizes would be necessary to detect significant impact on hearing progression in a clinical trial. Hearing function should be monitored clinically in WFS to provide appropriate intervention. Because SNHL can occur very early in WFS, audiologists and otolaryngologists should be aware of and refer for later emerging symptoms.
The online version of this article (10.1186/s13023-018-0852-0) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.