Xylitol is an approved food additive that is widely used as a sweetener in many manufactured products. It is also used in pharmaceuticals. Secondary oxalosis resulting from high dietary oxalate has been reported. However, reported cases of oxalosis following xylitol infusion are rare.
A 39-year-old man with a 16-year history of organic psychiatric disorder was hospitalized for a laparoscopic cholecystectomy because of cholecystolithiasis. He had been treated with several antipsychotics and mood stabilizers, including lithium. The patient had polyuria (> 4000 mL/day) and his serum sodium levels ranged from 150 to 160 mmol/L. Urine osmolality was 141 mOsm/L, while serum arginine vasopressin level was 6.4 pg/mL. The patient was diagnosed with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), and lithium was gradually discontinued. Postoperative urine volumes increased further to a maximum of 10,000 mL/day, and up to 10,000 mL/day of 5% xylitol was administered. The patient’s consciousness level declined and serum creatinine increased to 4.74 mg/dL. This was followed by coma and metabolic acidosis. After continuous venous hemodiafiltration, serum sodium improved to the upper 140 mmol/L range and serum creatinine decreased to 1.25 mg/dL at discharge. However, polyuria and polydipsia of approximately 4000 mL/day persisted. Renal biopsy showed oxalate crystals and decreased expression of aquaporin-2 (AQP2) in the renal tubules. Urinary AQP2 was undetected. The patient was discharged on day 82 after admission.
Our patient was diagnosed with lithium-induced NDI and secondary oxalosis induced by excess xylitol infusion. NDI became apparent perioperatively because of fasting, and an overdose of xylitol infusion led to cerebrorenal oxalosis. Our patient received a maximum xylitol dose of 500 g/day and a total dose of 2925 g. Patients receiving lithium therapy must be closely monitored during the perioperative period, and rehydration therapy using xylitol infusion should be avoided in such cases.