Diabetes used to be a rare condition among Inuit in Greenland. However, research in recent decades has shown a high prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes. Addressing diabetes in the geographically dispersed population of Greenland presents a challenge to the health care system. In 2008, a new model of diabetes care was introduced in Greenland that included continual monitoring, analysis, and adjustment of initiatives taken. The overall aim of this review was to review the feasibility of the monitoring of an ongoing national diabetes care programme. After ten years of observation it was clear that monitoring of such a programme based on information in electronic medical records in Greenland was feasible. It was found that the majority of the population in Greenland was in contact with the health care system. Increased diagnostic activity resulted in an increased prevalence of diagnosed diabetes. The quality of diabetes care in Greenland and the testing effectiveness of gestational diabetes were improved. Microvascular complications were frequently observed among Greenlandic diabetic patients, except for retinopathy that was as an exception. In summary, this model may improve diabetes care and potentially care for other chronic conditions in Greenland, and may also be helpful in other remote settings where chronic disease care is difficult.
Abbreviations: AD: Anno Domini; ADA: American Diabetes Association; BC: Before Christ; BMI: Body Mass Index; BP: Blood Pressure; CWB: Capillary Whole Blood; EMR: Electronic Medical Record; EASD: European Association for Study of Diabetes; GA: Gestational Age; GDM: Gestational Diabetes Mellitus; FIGO: The International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics; HbA1c: Glycosylated haemoglobin; IDF: International Diabetes Federation; LDL: Low density lipoprotein; NDQIA: National Diabetes Quality Improvement Alliancel; NICE: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence; OECD: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; OGTT: Oral Glucose Tolerance Test; QIH: Queen Ingrid Hospital; RCT: Randomised Controlled Tria;l T1D: Type 1 Diabetes; T2D: Type 2 Diabetes; UACR: Urine Albumin Creatinine Ratio; WHO: World Health Organisation