Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) occurs in approximately 20–40% of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Patients with DKD have a higher risk of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers and antihyperglycemic drugs form the mainstay of DKD management and aim to restrict progression to more severe stages of DKD. Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) control hyperglycemia by blocking renal glucose reabsorption in addition to preventing inflammation, thereby improving endothelial function and reducing oxidative stress; consequently, this class of prescription medicines is emerging as an important addition to the therapeutic armamentarium. The EMPA-REG OUTCOME, DECLARE TIMI 58, and CANVAS trials demonstrated the renoprotective effects of SGLT2i, such as restricting decline in glomerular filtration rate, in the progression of albuminuria, and in death due to renal causes. The renoprotection provided by SGLT2i was further confirmed in the CREDENCE study, which showed a 30% reduction in progression of chronic kidney disease, and in the DELIGHT study, which demonstrated a reduction in albuminuria with dapagliflozin compared with placebo (− 21.0%, confidence interval [CI] − 34.1 to − 5.2, p = 0.011). Furthermore, a meta-analysis demonstrated a reduced risk of dialysis, transplantation, or death due to kidney disease (relative risk 0.67; 95% CI 0.52–0.86; p = 0.0019) and a 45% risk reduction in worsening of renal function, end-stage renal disease, or renal death (hazard ratio 0.55, CI 0.48–0.64, p < 0.0001) with SGLT2i, irrespective of baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate. Thus, there is emerging evidence that SGLT2i may be used to curb the mortality and improve the quality of life in patients with DKD. However, clinicians need to effectively select candidates for SGLT2i therapy. In this consensus statement, we have qualitatively synthesized evidence demonstrating the renal effects of SGLT2i and proposed recommendations for optimal use of SGLT2i to effectively manage and delay progression of DKD.