Galectin‐3 (Gal3) contributes to insulin resistance, inflammation and obesity, the three risk factors for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients.
A total of 134 hospitalized type 2 diabetes mellitus patients were assessed by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment method, and divided into 65 MCI and 69 controls. Levels of variables, Gal3 and Aβ42, were investigated in relation with cognitive function in both type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with MCI and high‐fat diet/streptozotocin induced type 2 diabetes mellitus rats.
Significantly higher levels of serum Gal3 and lower levels of plasma Aβ42 (all P < 0.05) were found in the MCI type 2 diabetes mellitus group as compared with the non‐MCI type 2 diabetes mellitus control. Partial correlation analysis showed that Gal3 is negatively correlated with both MMSE score (r = −0.51, P < 0.01) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment score (r = −0.47, P < 0.001) after adjustment for glycated hemoglobin, homoeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance and Aβ42 in all type 2 diabetes mellitus patients, with a stronger effect seen in the MCI type 2 diabetes mellitus group after further analysis with MCI strata. A simple logistic regression model showed that Gal3 and Aβ42 are significantly associated with MCI type 2 diabetes mellitus patients after adjustment with the covariates sex, age, body mass index, glycated hemoglobin, homoeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance and antidiabetic drugs. Serum and brain Gal3 levels were significantly increased in high‐fat diet/streptozotocin diabetic rats, which correlate to the impairment of learning and memory ability. Gal3 inhibitor modified citrus pectin decreased serum and brain Gal3 levels in diabetic rats, accompanied by the amelioration of learning and memory impairment.
Gal3 might be associated with cognitive impairment in type 2 diabetes mellitus, and serum Gal3 level might be a new risk factor of MCI in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients.
Galectin‐3 might be associated with cognitive impairment in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Serum galectin‐3 level could be a new risk factor of mild cognitive impairment in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients.