Pancreatic cancer is one of the cancers with the highest mortality rate which is most often attributed to late diagnosis. The identification of risk factors is therefore important. While gestational diabetes also shares mechanisms of action with diabetes mellitus, several studies have provided hypotheses that could explain the pathophysiology of the link between diabetes mellitus and risk of pancreatic cancer. Accordingly, the aim of our study was to determine the risk of developing pancreatic cancer in women with a history of gestational diabetes from a quasi-exhaustive national medico-administrative database for deliveries in France. We included 1,368,755 women in our study. We showed that gestational diabetes was significantly associated with a greater risk of pancreatic cancer, regardless of subsequent type 2 diabetes. Our results suggest a better follow-up of patients after a gestational diabetes in order to identify high-risk profiles of developing more serious conditions, such as pancreatic cancer.
The aim of this large retrospective cohort study was to use a quasi-exhaustive national medico-administrative database of deliveries in France to determine the risk of developing pancreatic cancer (PC) in women with a history of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). This nationwide population-based study included women aged 14–55 who gave birth between 1st January 2008 and 31 December 2009. The women were followed-up epidemiologically for eight years. Survival analyses using Cox regression models, adjusted for age, subsequent type 2 diabetes, and tobacco consumption, were performed on the time to occurrence of hospitalization for PC. The onset of GDM, tobacco consumption and subsequent type 2 diabetes were considered as time-dependent variables. Among 1,352,560 women included, 95,314 had a history of GDM (7.05%) and 126 women were hospitalized for PC (0.01%). Over the eight years of follow-up, GDM was significantly associated with a higher risk of hospitalization with PC in the first Cox regression model adjusted for age and subsequent type 2 diabetes (HR = 1.81 95% CI [1.06–3.10]). The second Cox regression model adjusted for the same covariates, plus tobacco consumption, showed that GDM was still significantly associated with a higher risk of hospitalization for PC with nearly the same estimated risk (HR = 1.77 95% CI [1.03–3.03]). Gestational diabetes was significantly associated with a greater risk of hospital admission for pancreatic cancer within eight years, regardless of subsequent type 2 diabetes.