Diabetes mellitus is a group of metabolic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia resulting from defects in insulin secretion or insulin action. It can be caused by the consumption of carbohydrate meals or medication side effects. Depression as a comorbid condition in an individual with diabetes is accountable for increased disability, mortality, and significant health problem in patients. As a continent, Africa does not have an overall estimation of depression prevalence among diabetes mellitus patients at a regional level. Consequently, this study's purpose was to use the meta-analysis method to summarize estimates of extant studies that have reported depression prevalence among patients with diabetes mellitus in Africa. The literature search method was executed to classify studies with reported depression prevalence with evidently designed inclusion and exclusion criteria. In total, 20 studies from sundry screened articles were appropriate for ultimate inclusion in the meta-analysis. Since substantial heterogeneity was expected, a random-effects meta-analysis was carried out using the number of cases with a total sample size to estimate the prevalence of diabetes mellitus at a regional level. The residual amount of heterogeneity was found to be high according to the statistics of τ2 = 0.06; I2 = 99.10%, chi-square = 2184.85, degree of freedom = 19 and P =< 0.001. The pooled depression prevalence was 40% within a 95% confidence interval of 29%–51%. The meta-regression analysis result showed that none of the included moderators contributed to the heterogeneity of studies. The result of effect size estimates against its standard error showed publication bias with a P-value of 0.001. The meta-analysis findings of this study have indicated that depression prevalence in Africa is still high. Reporting on numerous risk factors like socio-demographic characteristics were not possible in this study because of a lack of completeness in the included articles. Consequently, screening diabetes patients for comorbid depression with its associated risk factors is highly recommended.
Africa continent, Depression prevalence, Diabetes mellitus, Meta-analysis method, Statistical heterogeneity.