Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disorder resulting from a disturbance of insulin secretion, action, or both. Hyperglycemia and overproduction of superoxide induce the development and progression of chronic complications of DM. The impact of DM and its complication on the central nervous system (CNS) such as dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) still remain obscure. In dementia, there is a gradual decline in cognitive function. The incidence of dementia increases with age, and patient become socially, physically, and mentally more vulnerable and dependent. The symptoms often emerge decades after the onset of pathophysiology, thus impairing early therapeutic intervention. Most diabetic subjects who develop dementia are above the age of 65, but diabetes may also cause an increased risk of developing dementia before 65 years. Vascular dementia is the second most common form of dementia after AD. Type 2 DM (T2DM) increases the incidence of vascular dementia (since its covers the vascular system) and AD. The functional and structural integrity of the CNS is altered in T2DM due to increased synthesis of Aβ. Additionally, hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein also results from dysregulation of various signaling cascades in T2DM, thereby causing neuronal damage and AD. There is the prospect for development of a therapy that may help prevent or halt the progress of dementia resulting from T2DM.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is increasingly being associated with cognition dysfunction. Dementia, including vascular dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease, is being recognized as comorbidities of this metabolic disorder. The progressive hallmarks of this cognitive dysfunction include mild impairment of cognition and cognitive decline. Dementia and mild impairment of cognition appear primarily in older patients. Studies on risk factors, neuropathology, and brain imaging have provided important suggestions for mechanisms that lie behind the development of dementia. It is a significant challenge to understand the disease processes related to diabetes that affect the brain and lead to dementia development. The connection between diabetes mellitus and dysfunction of cognition has been observed in many human and animal studies that have noted that mechanisms related to diabetes mellitus are possibly responsible for aggravating cognitive dysfunction. This article attempts to narrate the possible association between Type 2 diabetes and dementia, reviewing studies that have noted this association in vascular dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease and helping to explain the potential mechanisms behind the disease process. A Google search for “Diabetes Mellitus and Dementia” was carried out. Search was also done for “Diabetes Mellitus”, “Vascular Dementia”, and “Alzheimer’s Disease”. The literature search was done using Google Scholar, Pubmed, Embase, ScienceDirect, and MEDLINE. Keeping in mind the increasing rate of Diabetes Mellitus, it is important to establish the Type 2 diabetes’ effect on the brain and diseases of neurodegeneration. This narrative review aims to build awareness regarding the different types of dementia and their relationship with diabetes.