Nepal, in recent years, is witnessing an increasing problem of type 2 diabetes that has resulted significant premature deaths and disability. Prevention and management of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) including diabetes have been prioritized in the national policies and guidelines of the Nepal Government. However, research looking at the overview of the implementation of the existing policies and guidelines for diabetes prevention and control is scarce. Hence, this study reviewed diabetes related existing policies and its implementation process at the primary health care level in Nepal.
This study involved two phases: Phase I: situation analyses through review of documents and Phase II: qualitative exploratory study. In phase I, four databases (Medline, Web of Science, Embase and PubMed) were systematically searched using key search terms related to diabetes care and policies between January 2000 and June 2021. Also, relevant gray literature was reviewed to understand the trajectory of policy development and its translation with regards to diabetes prevention and management at primary health care level in Nepal. Following the phase I, we conducted in-depth interviews (IDI) and key informant interviews (KII) with health care providers, policy makers, and managers (IDI = 13, and KII = 7) at peripheral and central levels in Kavrepalanchowk and Nuwakot districts of Nepal. The in-depth interviews were audio recorded, transcribed, and coded. The triangulation of data from document review and interviews was done and presented in themes.
Four key themes were identified through triangulating findings from the document review and interviews including (i) limited implementation of policies into practices; (ii) lack of coordination among the different levels of service providers; (iii) lack of trained human resources for health and inadequate quality services at the primary health care level, and (iv) inadequate access and utilization of diabetes care services at primary health care level. Specifically, this study identified some key pertinent challenges to the implementation of policies and programs including inadequate resources, limited engagement of stakeholders in service design and delivery, lack of trained health care providers, lack of financial resources to strengthen peripheral health services, fragmented health governance, and weak reporting and monitoring systems.
This study revealed that the policies, plans, and strategies for prevention and management of NCDs in Nepal recognized the importance of diabetes prevention and control. However, a major gap remains with adequate and lack of clarity in terms of implementation of available policies, plans, strategies, and programs to address the problem of diabetes. We suggest the need for multisectoral approach (engaging both health and non-health sectors) at central as well as peripheral levels to strengthen the policies implementation process, building capacity of health care providers, ensuring adequate financial and non-financial resources, and improving quality of services at primary health care levels.