The magnitude of diabetes mellitus (DM) has increased in recent decades, where the number of cases and the proportion of the disease have been gradually increasing over the past few decades. The chronic complications of DM affect many organ systems and account for the majority of morbidity and mortality associated with the disease. The prevalence of type 1 DM (T1DM) is increasing globally, and it has a very significant burden on countries and at an individual level. T1DM is a chronic illness that requires ongoing medical care and patient self-management to prevent complications. This study aims to discuss the health benefits of physical activity (PA) in T1DM patients. The present review article was performed following a comprehensive literature search. The search was conducted using the following electronic databases: “Cochrane Library”, Web of Science, PubMed, HINARI, EMBASE, Google for grey literature, Scopus, African journals Online, and Google Scholar for articles published up to June 21, 2021. The present review focused on the effects of PA on many outcomes such as blood glucose (BG) control, physical fitness, endothelial function, insulin sensitivity, well-being, the body defense system, blood lipid profile, insulin resistance, cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), insulin requirements, blood pressure (BP), and mortality. It was found that many studies recommended the use of PA for the effective management of T1DM. PA is a component of comprehensive lifestyle modifications, which is a significant approach for the management of T1DM. It provides several health benefits, such as improving BG control, physical fitness, endothelial function, insulin sensitivity, well-being, and the body defense system. Besides this, it reduces the blood lipid profile, insulin resistance, CVDs, insulin requirements, BP, and mortality. Overall, PA has significant and essential protective effects against the health risks associated with T1DM. Even though PA has several health benefits for patients with T1DM, these patients are not well engaged in PA due to barriers such as a fear of exercise-induced hypoglycemia in particular. However, several effective strategies have been identified to control exercise-induced hypoglycemia in these patients. Finally, the present review concludes that PA should be recommended for the management of patients with T1DM due to its significant health benefits and protective effects against associated health risks. It also provides suggestions for the future direction of research in this field.