Diabetes has become a major public health problem, with 4.6 million deaths annually. The number of people living with undiagnosed diabetes is on the rise and has a diverse prevalence. Thus, this systematic review and meta-analysis was aimed to synthesize the pooled estimate prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus, impaired fasting glucose and its associated factors in Ethiopia. The databases Medline, Hinari, Google Scholar, and Google search were used to find potential studies published from January 2013 until January 2021. Extracted data were entered into the excel spreadsheet. The random effects model with Der Simonian-Laird weights was used to assess the pooled estimate of prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes, impaired fasting glucose, and its associated factors. The Cochrane Q-test and I2 statistics were used to screen for statistical heterogeneity. A funnel plot and Egger's statistical test were also used to search for any publication bias (small study effect). After extensive searching of articles on different databases, a total of nine studies were included for this systematic review and meta-analysis. In random effects model, the pooled prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus and impaired fasting glucose was 5.75%, 95% CI (3.90–7.59%), and 8.94%, 95% CI (2.60–15.28%), respectively. Regarding the associated factors, participants family history of diabetes was significantly associated with diabetes status. The pooled odds of developing diabetes mellitus among participants with a family history of diabetes mellitus were about 3.56 times higher than those without a family history of diabetes mellitus (OR = 3.56, 95% CI (2.23, 5.68)). In this review, the higher prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus and impaired fasting glucose was observed among adults in Ethiopia. Family history of diabetes was found to have an association with increased risk of diabetes mellitus. Our finding highlights the need of screening at the community level, with special focus on adults with family history of diabetes mellitus.