Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most prevalent liver disease worldwide, and more than half of individuals diagnosed with type 2 diabetes concurrently present with NAFLD. There is a bidirectional pathological relationship between the two conditions, whereby NAFLD increases the risk of type 2 diabetes, and type 2 diabetes contributes to and accelerates the progression of NAFLD. Furthermore, over 30% of patients with NAFLD progress to non-alcoholic liver steatohepatitis (NASH), which then increases the risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its high prevalence and the potential clinical implications, the underlying pathogenesis of NAFLD has yet to be fully elucidated, and there is no consensus regarding standard diagnosis and treatment for either NALFD or NASH. As patients with both NASH and type 2 diabetes have impaired hepatic function owing to chronic inflammation and the resulting structural changes caused by hepatic fat accumulation, they face reduced options for antidiabetic treatment. SGLT-2 inhibitors inhibit glucose reabsorption in the proximal tubule, with increased excretion of glucose in urine and decreased glucose levels in plasma, and their glycemia-lowering effect is insulin-independent. Several other beneficial effects have been reported for SGLT-2 inhibitors, including reduced risks of cardiovascular and renal diseases, improved blood pressure control, body weight reduction, and reductions in liver fat content. Experimental studies in mouse models have suggested that SGLT-2 inhibitors may have beneficial modulatory effects on NAFLD/NASH. Several trials in patients with type 2 diabetes have also suggested that these drugs may be useful in treating both type 2 diabetes and NAFLD or NASH. However, further research is needed to identify the mechanisms by which SGLT-2 inhibitors affect fatty liver and steatohepatitis. In this state-of-the-art review, we explore the literature on the efficacy of SGLT-2 inhibitors in patients with type 2 diabetes and NASH, and present arguments for and against the use of SGLT-2 inhibitors in this patient population.