Emerging evidence suggests that diabetes stigma and negative emotions associated with it may impair the quality of life of people with diabetes. Among these psychological distresses, shame is considered the most distressing of all human emotional experiences and may be a condition to which diabetes clinicians should pay attention. This epidemiological study focused on diabetes-related shame and aimed to determine the prevalence of diabetes-related shame, its factors, and its association with psychological indicators.
A cross-sectional online survey was conducted among people with type 2 diabetes preregistered with a research firm. The questionnaire included experience of diabetes-related shame and demographic data such as age, clinical characteristic measures such as hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), and psychological indicators, including the WHO Five Well-Being Index (WHO-5) and Problem Areas In Diabetes-5 (PAID-5). Differences in each indicator between people with diabetes who experienced shame and those who did not were analyzed with the unpaired t-test. As supplemental analysis, binomial logistic regression analysis was used to identify factors associated with the prevalence of diabetes-related shame.
Of the 510 participants, 32.9% experienced diabetes-related shame and 17.5% concealed their disease from colleagues or friends. Those who had experienced diabetes-related shame showed significantly lower WHO-5 and higher PAID-5 scores (p<0.001). However, no significant difference was found in HbA1c (p=0.36). Binomial logistic regression revealed that women, young adults, those without a college degree, those with low self-efficacy, and those with a strong sense of financial burden or external pressure were at higher risk of experiencing diabetes-related shame.
Among people with type 2 diabetes mellitus, diabetes-related shame was associated with diabetes-specific emotional distress and low psychological well-being. Further research and care development are needed to address diabetes-related shame and improve the quality of life of people with diabetes.