Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are promising candidates for tissue regeneration and disease treatment. However, long-term in vitro passaging leads to stemness loss of MSCs, resulting in failure of MSC therapy. This study investigated whether the combination of melatonin and human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) was superior to hUC-MSCs alone in ameliorating high-fat diet and streptozocin (STZ)-induced type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in a mouse model.
Mice were divided into four groups: normal control (NC) group; T2DM group; hUC-MSCs treatment alone (UCMSC) group and pretreatment of hUC-MSCs with melatonin (UCMSC/Mel) group.
RNA sequence analysis showed that certain pathways, including the signaling pathway involved in the regulation of cell proliferation signaling pathway, were regulated by melatonin. The blood glucose levels of the mice in the UCMSC and UCMSC/Mel treatment groups were significantly reduced compared with the T2DM group without treatment (P < 0.05). Furthermore, hUC-MSCs enhance the key factor in the activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway in T2DM mouse hepatocytes.
The pretreatment of hUC-MSCs with melatonin partly boosted cell efficiency and thereby alleviated impaired glycemic control and insulin resistance. This study provides a practical strategy to improve the application of hUC-MSCs in diabetes mellitus and cytotherapy.
Overview of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. (A) Underlying mechanism of UCMSC/Mel inhibition of hyperglycemia and insulin resistance T2DM mice via regulation of PI3K/AKT pathway. hUC-MSCs stimulates glucose uptake and improves insulin action thus should inhibition the clinical signs of T2DM, through activation of the p-PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and then regulates glucose transport through activating AS160. UCMSC/Mel increases p53-dependent expression of BCL2, and inhibit BAX and Capase3 protein activation. Leading to the decrease in apoptosis. (B) Melatonin modulated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Melatonin activated PI3K/AKT response pathway through binding to MT1and MT2 receptor. Leading to the increase in hUC-MSCs proliferation, migration and differentiation. → (Direct stimulatory modification); ┴ ( Direct Inhibitory modification); → ┤ (Multistep inhibitory modification); ↑ (Up regulate); ↓ (Down regulate); PI3K (Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase); AKT ( protein kinase B); PDK1 (Phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1); IR, insulin receptor; GLUT4 ( glucose transporter type 4); ROS (reactive oxygen species); BCL-2 (B-cell lymphoma-2); PDK1 (phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1) BAX (B-cell lymphoma-2-associated X protein); PCNA (Proliferating cell nuclear antigen); Cell cycle-associated proteins (KI67, cyclin A, cyclin E)
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13287-022-02832-0.