Patient involvement with diabetes self‐care is critical to reducing complications, morbidity, and mortality. Social media, as one of the most important forms of digital health, has always been available for diabetes self‐care, although the role of these media in supporting patient self‐care is unclear.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of social networks in diabetes self‐care. In this study, the most important social networks used to receive self‐care services, diabetes self‐care behaviors, diabetes self‐care educations and benefits of using various services provided through social networks were identified.
The present study is a cross‐sectional study that was conducted through an electronic researcher‐made questionnaire in 2021. Two hundred and eighteen patients were selected to participate in the study from centers of diabetes of Fasa city, south of Iran. Sampling was performed by convenience sampling and in accordance with inclusion and exclusion criteria. Data were analyzed by descriptive statistics and analytical tests.
In the data analysis section on Diabetes self‐care behaviors, there was no significant relationship between gender (p = 0.292), age (p = 0.49), type of diabetes (p = 0.909) and duration of diabetes (p = 0.076) with the use of self‐care services provided through social networks. There was a significant relationship between education level and the use of self‐care services provided through social networks (p = 0.01). “Recognizing diabetes and its complications,” “observing personal hygiene,” and “the impact of physical activity on diabetes control” were the most important educations. “Increasing patient knowledge and understanding about diabetes and its complications,” “reducing the consumption of high‐calorie foods and sugars,” and “observing personal and public health” were the most important social network's benefits, respectively.
Various self‐care educations and services provided through social networks can increase the in‐depth knowledge of diabetic patients about self‐care techniques and their effective role in controlling and managing diabetes and performing more self‐care processes.