Granulomatosis with polyangiitis, formerly known as Wegener granulomatosis, is a necrotizing vasculitis with granulomatous inflammation that belongs to the class of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies-positive diseases. It occurs in a localized and a systemic form and may present with a variety of symptoms. Involvement of the upper respiratory tract is very common, while neurologic, endocrinological, and nephrological dysfunction may occur.
We describe the case of a 29-year-old Central European male patient presenting with severe bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, otorrhea, and one-sided facial nerve paralysis. The patient was unsuccessfully treated with i.v. antibiotics at another hospital in Berlin, and tympanic tubes were inserted. After presentation to our emergency room, he was hospitalized and further diagnostics started. Increased fluid intake and 12 kg weight gain over the last months were reported. The patient was diagnosed with granulomatosis with polyangiitis and diabetes insipidus. The patient’s condition improved after treatment with rituximab.
A comprehensive PubMed search of all articles with granulomatosis with polyangiitis and diabetes insipidus was conducted to assess which combination of symptoms occurs simultaneously and whether other parts of the pituitary are commonly involved. The 39 selected articles, describing 61 patients, showed that ear–nose–throat involvement occurred most commonly, in 71% of cases. Of patients, 59% had involvement of the anterior pituitary gland, while true panhypopituitarism occurred in 13% of cases. Only one case report featured the same set of symptoms as described herein.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis is a highly variable disease, commonly involving the upper airways, but that may present with symptoms solely related to the pituitary gland. Clinicians should have a low threshold to investigate for granulomatosis with polyangiitis in patients with therapy-resistant otorrhea. Patients may present with a complex set of symptoms, and integrating different specialists when additional symptoms occur may lead to faster diagnosis.
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13256-022-03492-7.