The upsurge of type 2 diabetes mellitus is a major public health concern in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and Africa (AFR) region, with cardiorenal complications (CRCs) being the predominant cause of premature morbidity and mortality. High prevalence of cardiometabolic risk factors, lack of awareness among patients and physicians, deficient infrastructure, and economic constraints lead to a cascade of CRCs at a significantly earlier age in MENA and AFR. In this review, we present consensus recommendations by experts in MENA and AFR, highlighting region‐specific challenges and potential solutions for management of CRCs. Health professionals who understand sociocultural barriers can significantly increase patient awareness and encourage health‐seeking behavior through simple educational tools. Increasing physician knowledge on early identification of CRCs and personalized treatment based on risk stratification, alongside optimum glycemic control, can mitigate therapeutic inertia. Early diagnosis of high‐risk people with regular and systematic monitoring of cardiorenal parameters, development of region‐specific care pathways for timely referral to specialists, followed by guideline‐recommended care with novel antidiabetics are imperative. Adherence to guideline‐recommended care can catalyze utilization of sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors and glucagon‐like peptide 1 receptor agonists with demonstrated cardiorenal benefits—thus paving the way for overcoming care gaps in a cost‐effective manner. Leveraging digital technology like electronic medical records can help generate real‐world data and provide insights on voids in adoption of newer antidiabetic medications. A patient‐centric approach, collaborative care among physicians from different specialties, alongside involvement of policy makers are key for improving patient outcomes and quality of care in MENA and AFR.
This consensus document identifies challenging areas and strategic recommendations for the effective management of cardiorenal complications in type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Middle East and North Africa and Africa.
There is a need for optimum glycemic control, early identification of cardiorenal complications, along with risk management through optimal low‐density lipoprotein cholesterol and blood pressure control, smoking cessation, and lifestyle management.
Suboptimal use of international guidelines and treatment inertia delay initiation of adequate therapy.
Early diagnosis of high‐risk people with regular and systematic monitoring of cardiorenal parameters, development of region‐specific care pathways for timely referral to specialists, followed by guideline‐recommended care with novel antidiabetics are imperative for optimal management.
 Highlights