This article summarized a total of 172 published cases of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-induced diabetes mellitus (DM).
Found that glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies positivity is related to an earlier onset of ICI-induced diabetes and a higher frequency of diabetic ketoacidosis development.
Presented a case of ICI-induced DM following obvious lipase and amylase elevation and discussed possible relationship between ICI-associated injuries to pancreatic exocrine function and endocrine function.
To better understand immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-induced diabetes mellitus (DM) in cancer patients.
We present a case of ICI-induced diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and conduct a systematic review of the PubMed and Web of Science databases up to September 2021 to identify all published cases of ICI-induced diabetes.
In addition to our case, a total of 171 published cases were identified during the literature search. Summary and statistical analyzes were conducted for all 172 cases. The median onset time from ICI initiation to DM diagnosis was 12 weeks (range: 0–122). DKA was present in 67.4% (116/172) of the cases, and low C-peptide levels were detected in 91.8% (123/134), indicating an acute onset of diabetes. Patients with positive glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies (GADA) had an earlier onset of ICI-induced diabetes (median time 7 weeks vs. 16 weeks for GADA-negative patients, p < 0.001) and a higher frequency of DKA development (82.8 vs. 62.1%, p = 0.006). All but two patients developed insulin-dependent diabetes permanently. Immunotherapy rechallenge was reported in 53 cases after glycemia was well controlled.
ICI-induced DM is a serious adverse event that often presents with life-threatening ketoacidosis. GADA positivity is related to an earlier onset of ICI-induced diabetes and a higher frequency of DKA development. Close monitoring of glucose levels is needed in patients receiving ICI treatment. ICI-induced DM is usually insulin-dependent since damage to β cells is irreversible. On the premise of well-controlled glycemia, immunotherapy rechallenge is feasible.