Nearly half of all adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) live in India and China. These populations have an underlying predisposition to deficient insulin secretion, which has a key role in the pathogenesis of T2DM. Indian and Chinese people might be more susceptible to hepatic or skeletal muscle insulin resistance, respectively, than other populations, resulting in specific forms of insulin deficiency. Cluster-based phenotypic analyses demonstrate a higher frequency of severe insulin-deficient diabetes mellitus and younger ages at diagnosis, lower β-cell function, lower insulin resistance and lower BMI among Indian and Chinese people compared with European people. Individuals diagnosed earliest in life have the most aggressive course of disease and the highest risk of complications. These characteristics might contribute to distinctive responses to glucose-lowering medications. Incretin-based agents are particularly effective for lowering glucose levels in these populations; they enhance incretin-augmented insulin secretion and suppress glucagon secretion. Sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors might also lower blood levels of glucose especially effectively among Asian people, while α-glucosidase inhibitors are better tolerated in east Asian populations versus other populations. Further research is needed to better characterize and address the pathophysiology and phenotypes of T2DM in Indian and Chinese populations, and to further develop individualized treatment strategies.
Prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing substantially in India and China. This Review discusses the epidemiology, phenotypes and pathogenesis of T2DM in India and China and evaluates options for optimal pharmacological management.
India and China account for nearly half of the global number of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and incidence rates are rising rapidly among young people.
Indian and Chinese people seem to have increased susceptibility to reduced insulin secretion, which probably has a stronger or more frequent role than insulin resistance in the pathogenesis of T2DM than in other populations.
In many Indian people, deficient first-phase insulin secretion and increased hepatic insulin resistance result in impaired fasting glucose, while in many Chinese people, deficient first-phase and second-phase insulin secretion and increased skeletal muscle insulin resistance result in impaired glucose tolerance.
Cluster-based phenotypic analyses demonstrate a higher frequency of severe insulin-deficient diabetes mellitus and demonstrate generally younger ages at diagnosis, lower β-cell function, lower insulin resistance and lower BMI among Indian people and Chinese people compared with European people.
Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists improve pancreatic β-cell function and reduce blood levels of glucose especially effectively in Indian and Chinese people compared with other populations.
Sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors might lower blood levels of glucose more effectively in Asian people than in European people, while α-glucosidase inhibitors are better tolerated among east Asian people than in other populations.