title,url,metadesc,norm_summary
A1C,https://medlineplus.gov/a1c.html,"If you are being tested for Type 2 diabetes, your doctor gives you an A1C test. The test is also used to monitor your A1C levels."," A1C is a blood test for type 2 diabetes and prediabetes . It measures your average blood glucose, or blood sugar , level over the past 3 months. Doctors may use the A1C alone or in combination with other diabetes tests to make a diagnosis. They also use the A1C to see how well you are managing your diabetes. This test is different from the blood sugar checks that people with diabetes do every day. Your A1C test result is given in percentages. The higher the percentage, the higher your blood sugar levels have been: A normal A1C level is below 5.7% Prediabetes is between 5.7 to 6.4%. Having prediabetes is a risk factor for getting type 2 diabetes. People with prediabetes may need retests every year. Type 2 diabetes is above 6.5% If you have diabetes, you should have the A1C test at least twice a year. The A1C goal for many people with diabetes is below 7. It may be different for you. Ask what your goal should be. If your A1C result is too high, you may need to change your diabetes care plan. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Abdominal Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/abdominalpain.html,Stomach aches can be painful. Find out what might be the cause of your abdominal pain. ," Your abdomen extends from below your chest to your groin. Some people call it the stomach, but your abdomen contains many other important organs. Pain in the abdomen can come from any one of them. The pain may start somewhere else, such as your chest. Severe pain doesn't always mean a serious problem. Nor does mild pain mean a problem is not serious. Call your health care provider if mild pain lasts a week or more or if you have pain with other symptoms. Get medical help immediately if You have abdominal pain that is sudden and sharp You also have pain in your chest, neck or shoulder You're vomiting blood or have blood in your stool Your abdomen is stiff, hard and tender to touch You can't move your bowels, especially if you're also vomiting"
Abortion,https://medlineplus.gov/abortion.html,An abortion is a medical procedure to end a pregnancy. It uses medicine or surgery to remove the embryo or fetus and placenta from the uterus. ," An abortion is a procedure to end a pregnancy. It uses medicine or surgery to remove the embryo or fetus and placenta from the uterus. The procedure is done by a licensed health care professional. The decision to end a pregnancy is very personal. If you are thinking of having an abortion, most health care providers advise counseling."
Abscess,https://medlineplus.gov/abscess.html,Abscesses are filled with pus and can occur anywhere on your body. They can be painful. Learn about types of abscesses and how they are treated. ," An abscess is a pocket of pus. You can get an abscess almost anywhere in your body. When an area of your body becomes infected, your body's immune system tries to fight the infection. White blood cells go to the infected area, collect within the damaged tissue, and cause inflammation. During this process, pus forms. Pus is a mixture of living and dead white blood cells, germs, and dead tissue. Bacteria, viruses, parasites and swallowed objects can all lead to abscesses. Skin abscesses are easy to detect. They are red, raised and painful. Abscesses inside your body may not be obvious and can damage organs, including the brain, lungs and others. Treatments include drainage and antibiotics."
Acne,https://medlineplus.gov/acne.html,Looking for ways to fight unsightly zits? Both teens and adults can get acne. Learn what causes pimples and blackheads and how to manage them.," Acne is a common skin disease that causes pimples. Pimples form when hair follicles under your skin clog up. Most pimples form on the face, neck, back, chest, and shoulders. Anyone can get acne, but it is common in teenagers and young adults. It is not serious, but it can cause scars . No one knows exactly what causes acne. Hormone changes, such as those during the teenage years and pregnancy, probably play a role. There are many myths about what causes acne. Chocolate and greasy foods are often blamed, but there is little evidence that foods have much effect on acne in most people. Another common myth is that dirty skin causes acne; however, blackheads and pimples are not caused by dirt. Stress doesn't cause acne, but stress can make it worse. If you have acne Clean your skin gently Try not to touch your skin Avoid the sun Treatments for acne include medicines and creams. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Acoustic Neuroma,https://medlineplus.gov/acousticneuroma.html,An acoustic neuroma is a benign tumor that grows on the cranial nerve that connects the ear to the brain. It can affect hearing and balance nerves.," An acoustic neuroma is a benign tumor that develops on the nerve that connects the ear to the brain. The tumor usually grows slowly. As it grows, it presses against the hearing and balance nerves. At first, you may have no symptoms or mild symptoms. They can include Loss of hearing on one side Ringing in ears Dizziness and balance problems The tumor can also eventually cause numbness or paralysis of the face. If it grows large enough, it can press against the brain, becoming life-threatening. Acoustic neuroma can be difficult to diagnose, because the symptoms are similar to those of middle ear problems. Ear exams, hearing tests, and scans can show if you have it. If the tumor stays small, you may only need to have it checked regularly. If you do need treatment, surgery and radiation are options. If the tumors affect both hearing nerves, it is often because of a genetic disorder called neurofibromatosis . NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Communication Disorders"
Acupuncture,https://medlineplus.gov/acupuncture.html,Are you considering acupuncture to treat pain? Find out about how this type of traditional Chinese medicine might help you. ," Acupuncture has been practiced in China and other Asian countries for thousands of years. Acupuncture involves stimulating specific points on the body. This is most often done by inserting thin needles through the skin, to cause a change in the physical functions of the body. Research has shown that acupuncture reduces nausea and vomiting after surgery and chemotherapy. It can also relieve pain. Researchers don't fully understand how acupuncture works. It might aid the activity of your body's pain-killing chemicals. It also might affect how you release chemicals that regulate blood pressure and flow. NIH: National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health"
Acute Bronchitis,https://medlineplus.gov/acutebronchitis.html,"Bronchitis is an inflammation of the airways that carry air to your lungs. Learn about acute bronchitis symptoms, causes, and treatment"," Bronchitis is an inflammation of the bronchial tubes, the airways that carry air to your lungs. It causes a cough that often brings up mucus. It can also cause shortness of breath, wheezing, a low fever, and chest tightness. There are two main types of bronchitis: acute and chronic . Most cases of acute bronchitis get better within several days. But your cough can last for several weeks after the infection is gone. The same viruses that cause colds and the flu often cause acute bronchitis. These viruses spread through the air when people cough, or though physical contact (for example, on unwashed hands). Being exposed to tobacco smoke, air pollution, dusts, vapors, and fumes can also cause acute bronchitis. Less often, bacteria can also cause acute bronchitis. To diagnose acute bronchitis, your health care provider will ask about your symptoms and listen to your breathing. You may also have other tests. Treatments include rest, fluids, and aspirin (for adults) or acetaminophen to treat fever. A humidifier or steam can also help. You may need inhaled medicine to open your airways if you are wheezing. Antibiotics won't help if the cause is viral. You may get antibiotics if the cause is bacterial. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Acute Flaccid Myelitis,https://medlineplus.gov/acuteflaccidmyelitis.html,Acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) is a rare but serious neurologic disease. It can cause sudden arm or leg weakness and a loss of muscle tone and reflexes. AFM mostly affects children. Learn about its symptoms and possible causes.," What is acute flaccid myelitis (AFM)? Acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) is a neurologic disease . It is rare, but serious. It affects an area of the spinal cord called gray matter. This can cause the muscles and reflexes in the body to become weak. Because of these symptoms, some people call AFM a ""polio-like"" illness. But since 2014, people with AFM have been tested, and they did not have poliovirus . What causes acute flaccid myelitis (AFM)? Researchers think that viruses, including enteroviruses, likely play a role in causing AFM. Most people with AFM had a mild respiratory illness or fever (like you would get from a viral infection ) before they got AFM. Who is at risk for acute flaccid myelitis (AFM)? Anyone can get AFM, but most cases (more than 90%) have been in young children. What are the symptoms of acute flaccid myelitis (AFM)? Most people with AFM will suddenly have Arm or leg weakness A loss of muscle tone and reflexes Some people also have other symptoms, including Facial drooping/weakness Trouble moving the eyes Drooping eyelids Trouble swallowing Slurred speech Pain in the arms, legs, back, or neck Sometimes AFM can weaken the muscles that you need for breathing. This can lead to respiratory failure , which is very serious. If you get respiratory failure, you may need to use a ventilator (breathing machine) to help you breathe. If you or your child develops any of these symptoms, you should get medical care right away. How is acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) diagnosed? AFM causes many of the same symptoms as other neurologic diseases, such as transverse myelitis and Guillain-Barre syndrome . This can make it difficult to diagnose. The doctor may use many tools to make a diagnosis: A neurologic exam , including looking at where there is weakness, poor muscle tone, and decreased reflexes An MRI to look at the spinal cord and brain Lab tests on the cerebrospinal fluid (the fluid around the brain and spinal cord) Nerve conduction and electromyography (EMG) studies . These tests check nerve speed and the response of muscles to the messages from the nerves. It is important that the tests are done as soon as possible after the symptoms start. What are the treatments for acute flaccid myelitis (AFM)? There is no specific treatment for AFM. A doctor who specializes in treating brain and spinal cord illnesses (neurologist) may recommend treatments for specific symptoms. For example, physical and/or occupational therapy may help with arm or leg weakness. Researchers do not know the long-term outcomes of people with AFM. Can acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) be prevented? Since viruses likley play a role in AFM, you should take steps to help prevent getting or spreading viral infections by Washing hands often with soap and water Avoiding touching your face with unwashed hands Avoiding close contact with people who are sick Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces that you frequently touch, including toys Covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue or upper shirt sleeve, not hands Staying home when sick Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia,https://medlineplus.gov/acutelymphocyticleukemia.html,Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL) or Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia is a cancer of the white blood cells. Learn more about symptoms and treatment.," What is leukemia? Leukemia is a term for cancers of the blood cells. Leukemia starts in blood-forming tissues such as the bone marrow. Your bone marrow makes the cells which will develop into white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. Each type of cell has a different job: White blood cells help your body fight infection Red blood cells deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs Platelets help form clots to stop bleeding When you have leukemia, your bone marrow makes large numbers of abnormal cells. This problem most often happens with white blood cells. These abnormal cells build up in your bone marrow and blood. They crowd out the healthy blood cells and make it hard for your cells and blood to do their work. What is acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)? Acute lymphocytic leukemia is a type of acute leukemia. It's also called ALL and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. ""Acute"" means that it usually gets worse quickly if it's not treated. ALL is the most common type of cancer in children . It can also affect adults. In ALL, the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell. These cells normally help your body fight infection. But in ALL, they are abnormal and cannot fight infection very well. They also crowd out the healthy cells, which can lead to infection, anemia , and easy bleeding. These abnormal cells can also spread to other parts of the body, including the brain and spinal cord. What causes acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)? ALL happens when there are changes in the genetic material (DNA) in bone marrow cells. The cause of these genetic changes is unknown. However, there are certain factors that raise your risk of ALL. Who is at risk for acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)? The factors that raise your risk of ALL include Being male Being white Being over age 70 Having had chemotherapy or radiation therapy Having been exposed to high levels of radiation Having certain genetic disorders , such as Down syndrome What are the symptoms of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)? The signs and symptoms of ALL include Weakness or feeling tired Fever or night sweats Easy bruising or bleeding Petechiae, which are tiny red dots under the skin. They are caused by bleeding. Shortness of breath Weight loss or loss of appetite Pain in the bones or stomach Pain or feeling of fullness below the ribs Swollen lymph nodes - you may notice them as painless lumps in the neck, underarm, stomach, or groin Having had many infections How is acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose ALL and figure out which subtype you have: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, such as Complete blood count (CBC) with differential Blood chemistry tests such as a basic metabolic panel (BMP) , comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) , kidney function tests , liver function tests , and electrolyte panel Blood smear Bone marrow tests . There are two main types - bone marrow aspiration and bone marrow biopsy. Both tests involve removing a sample of bone marrow and bone. The samples are sent to a lab for testing. Genetic tests to look for gene and chromosome changes If you are diagnosed with ALL, you may have additional tests to see whether the cancer has spread. These include imaging tests and a lumbar puncture , which is a procedure to collect and test cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). What are the treatments for acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)? Treatments for ALL include Chemotherapy Radiation therapy Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells Treatment is usually done in two phases: The goal of the first phase is to kill the leukemia cells in the blood and bone marrow. This treatment puts the leukemia into remission. Remission means that the signs and symptoms of cancer are reduced or have disappeared. The second phase is known as post-remission therapy. Its goal is to prevent a relapse (return) of the cancer. It involves killing any remaining leukemia cells that may not be active but could begin to regrow. Treatment during both phases also usually includes central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis therapy. This therapy helps prevent the spread of leukemia cells to the brain and spinal cord. It may be high dose chemotherapy or chemotherapy injected into the spinal cord. It also sometimes includes radiation therapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Acute Myeloid Leukemia,https://medlineplus.gov/acutemyeloidleukemia.html,Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the white blood cells. AML usually gets worse quickly if it is not treated. Read more.," What is leukemia? Leukemia is a term for cancers of the blood cells. Leukemia starts in blood-forming tissues such as the bone marrow. Your bone marrow makes the cells which will develop into white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. Each type of cell has a different job: White blood cells help your body fight infection Red blood cells deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs Platelets help form clots to stop bleeding When you have leukemia, your bone marrow makes large numbers of abnormal cells. This problem most often happens with white blood cells. These abnormal cells build up in your bone marrow and blood. They crowd out the healthy blood cells and make it hard for your cells and blood to do their work. What is acute myeloid leukemia (AML)? Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of acute leukemia. ""Acute"" means that the leukemia usually gets worse quickly if it's not treated. In AML, the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. When the abnormal cells crowd out the healthy cells, it can lead to infection, anemia , and easy bleeding. The abnormal cells can also spread outside the blood to other parts of the body. There are several different subtypes of AML. The subtypes are based on how developed the cancer cells are when you get your diagnosis and how different they are from normal cells. What causes acute myeloid leukemia (AML)? AML happens when there are changes in the genetic material (DNA) in bone marrow cells. The cause of these genetic changes is unknown. However, there are certain factors that raise your risk of AML. Who is at risk for acute myeloid leukemia (AML)? The factors that raise your risk of AML include Being male Smoking, especially after age 60 Having had chemotherapy or radiation therapy Treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as a child Exposure to the chemical benzene A history of another blood disorder such as myelodysplastic syndrome What are the symptoms of acute myeloid leukemia (AML)? The signs and symptoms of AML include Fever Shortness of breath Easy bruising or bleeding Petechiae, which are tiny red dots under the skin. They are caused by bleeding. Weakness or feeling tired Weight loss or loss of appetite Bone or joint pain, if the abnormal cells build up near or inside the bones How is acute myeloid leukemia (AML) diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose AML and figure out which subtype you have: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC) and blood smear Bone marrow tests . There are two main types - bone marrow aspiration and bone marrow biopsy. Both tests involve removing a sample of bone marrow and bone. The samples are sent to a lab for testing. Genetic tests to look for gene and chromosome changes If you are diagnosed with AML, you may have additional tests to see whether the cancer has spread. These include imaging tests and a lumbar puncture , which is a procedure to collect and test cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). What are the treatments for acute myeloid leukemia (AML)? Treatments for AML include Chemotherapy Radiation therapy Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant Other anticancer medicines Which treatment you get often depends on which subtype of AML you have. Treatment is usually done in two phases: The goal of the first phase is to kill the leukemia cells in the blood and bone marrow. This puts the leukemia into remission. Remission means that the signs and symptoms of cancer are reduced or have disappeared. The second phase is known as post-remission therapy. Its goal is to prevent a relapse (return) of the cancer. It involves killing any remaining leukemia cells that may not be active but could begin to regrow. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Addison Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/addisondisease.html, Your adrenal glands makes hormones. Adrenal insufficiency or Addison disease happens if the adrenal glands don't make enough hormones. Read more. ," Your adrenal glands are just above your kidneys. The outside layer of these glands makes hormones that help your body respond to stress and regulate your blood pressure and water and salt balance. Addison disease happens if the adrenal glands don't make enough of these hormones. A problem with your immune system usually causes Addison disease. The immune system mistakenly attacks your own tissues, damaging your adrenal glands. Other causes include infections and cancer. Symptoms include Weight loss Muscle weakness Fatigue that gets worse over time Low blood pressure Patchy or dark skin Lab tests can confirm that you have Addison disease. If you don't treat it, it can be fatal. You will need to take hormone pills for the rest of your life. If you have Addison disease, you should carry an emergency ID. It should say that you have the disease, list your medicines and say how much you need in an emergency. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Adenoids,https://medlineplus.gov/adenoids.html,"Your adenoids are high up in your throat. They trap germs coming in your mouth and nose. Learn about enlarged adenoids, a common problem in children."," What are adenoids? Adenoids are a patch of tissue that is high up in the throat, just behind the nose. They, along with the tonsils, are part of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system clears away infection and keeps body fluids in balance. The adenoids and tonsils work by trapping germs coming in through the mouth and nose. Adenoids usually start to shrink after about age 5. By the teenage years, they are almost completely gone. By then, the body has other ways to fight germs. What are enlarged adenoids? Enlarged adenoids are adenoids that are swollen. It is a common problem in children. What causes enlarged adenoids? Your child's adenoids can be enlarged, or swollen, for different reasons. It may just be that your child had enlarged adenoids at birth. Adenoids can also become enlarged when they are trying to fight off an infection. They might stay enlarged even after the infection is gone. What problems can enlarged adenoids cause? Enlarged adenoids can make it hard to breathe through the nose. Your child might end up breathing only through the mouth. This may cause A dry mouth , which can also lead to bad breath Cracked lips A runny nose Other problems that enlarged adenoids can cause include Loud breathing Snoring Restless sleep Sleep apnea , where you repeatedly stop breathing for a few seconds while sleeping Ear infections How can enlarged adenoids be diagnosed? Your child's health care provider will take a medical history, check your child's ears, throat, and mouth, and feel your child's neck. Since the adenoids are higher up than the throat, the health care provider cannot see them just by looking through your child's mouth. To check the size of your child's adenoids, your provider may use A special mirror in the mouth A long, flexible tube with a light (an endoscope) An x-ray What are the treatments for enlarged adenoids? The treatment depends on what is causing the problem. If your child's symptoms are not too bad, he or she may not need treatment. Your child might get nasal spray to reduce the swelling, or antibiotics if the health care provider thinks that your child has a bacterial infection. In some cases your child may need an adenoidectomy. What is an adenoidectomy and why might I my child need one? An adenoidectomy is surgery to remove the adenoids. Your child might need it if He or she has repeated infections of the adenoids. Sometimes the infections can also cause ear infections and fluid buildup in the middle ear. Antibiotics can't get rid of a bacterial infection The enlarged adenoids block the airways If your child also has problems with his or her tonsils, he or she will probably have a tonsillectomy (removal of the tonsils) at the same time that the adenoids are removed. After having the surgery, your child usually goes home the same day. He or she will probably have some throat pain, bad breath, and a runny nose. It can take several days to feel all better."
Adhesions,https://medlineplus.gov/adhesions.html,"Abdominal surgery is the main cause of adhesions but not the only one. Learn about the signs, symptoms, and causes this type of scar tissue. "," Adhesions are bands of scar-like tissue. Normally, internal tissues and organs have slippery surfaces so they can shift easily as the body moves. Adhesions cause tissues and organs to stick together. They might connect the loops of the intestines to each other, to nearby organs, or to the wall of the abdomen. They can pull sections of the intestines out of place. This may block food from passing through the intestine. Adhesions can occur anywhere in the body. But they often form after surgery on the abdomen. Almost everyone who has surgery on the abdomen gets adhesions. Some adhesions don't cause any problems. But when they partly or completely block the intestines , they cause symptoms such as Severe abdominal pain or cramping Vomiting Bloating An inability to pass gas Constipation Adhesions can sometimes cause infertility in women by preventing fertilized eggs from reaching the uterus. No tests are available to detect adhesions. Doctors usually find them during surgery to diagnose other problems. Some adhesions go away by themselves. If they partly block your intestines, a diet low in fiber can allow food to move easily through the affected area. If you have a complete intestinal obstruction, it is life-threatening. You should get immediate medical attention and may need surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Adrenal Gland Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglandcancer.html,Tumors can affect adrenal glands. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. Types of tumors include Neuroblastoma and Pheochromocytoma.," Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions. A number of disorders can affect the adrenal glands , including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon. Types of tumors include Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland Neuroblastoma , a type of childhood cancer Pheochromocytoma - a rare tumor that is usually benign Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy."
Adrenal Gland Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html,"Adrenal gland disorders, such as Cushing's Syndrome and Addison's Disease, happen when your glands make too much or not enough hormones."," The adrenal glands are small glands located on top of each kidney. They produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol. Cortisol helps you respond to stress and has many other important functions. With adrenal gland disorders, your glands make too much or not enough hormones. In Cushing's syndrome , there's too much cortisol, while with Addison's disease , there is too little. Some people are born unable to make enough cortisol. Causes of adrenal gland disorders include Genetic mutations Tumors including pheochromocytomas Infections A problem in another gland, such as the pituitary, which helps to regulate the adrenal gland Certain medicines Treatment depends on which problem you have. Surgery or medicines can treat many adrenal gland disorders. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Advance Directives,https://medlineplus.gov/advancedirectives.html,"Advance directives, or living wills, inform your family about your wishes if you become too ill to let them know. Find out more. "," What kind of medical care would you want if you were too ill or hurt to express your wishes? Advance directives are legal documents that allow you to spell out your decisions about end-of-life care ahead of time. They give you a way to tell your wishes to family, friends, and health care professionals and to avoid confusion later on. A living will tells which treatments you want if you are dying or permanently unconscious. You can accept or refuse medical care. You might want to include instructions on The use of dialysis and breathing machines If you want to be resuscitated if your breathing or heartbeat stops Tube feeding Organ or tissue donation A durable power of attorney for health care is a document that names your health care proxy. Your proxy is someone you trust to make health decisions for you if you are unable to do so. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
After Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/aftersurgery.html,"Are you concerned about post-surgery side effects or after surgery care? Learn about how to care for incisions, control pain, and more."," After any operation , you'll have some side effects. There is usually some pain with surgery. There may also be swelling and soreness around the area that the surgeon cut. Your surgeon can tell you which side effects to expect. There can also be complications. These are unplanned events linked to the operation. Some complications are infection, too much bleeding, reaction to anesthesia , or accidental injury. Some people have a greater risk of complications because of other medical conditions. Your surgeon can tell you how you might feel and what you will be able to do - or not do - the first few days, weeks, or months after surgery. Some other questions to ask are How long you will be in the hospital What kind of supplies, equipment, and help you might need when you go home When you can go back to work When it is ok to start exercising again Are they any other restrictions in your activities Following your surgeon's advice can help you recover as soon as possible. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality"
Air Pollution,https://medlineplus.gov/airpollution.html,Did you know that air pollution can happen both inside buildings and outdoors?  Get the facts how air pollution effects your health.," Air pollution is a mixture of solid particles and gases in the air. Car emissions, chemicals from factories, dust, pollen and mold spores may be suspended as particles. Ozone , a gas, is a major part of air pollution in cities. When ozone forms air pollution, it's also called smog. Some air pollutants are poisonous. Inhaling them can increase the chance you'll have health problems. People with heart or lung disease, older adults and children are at greater risk from air pollution. Air pollution isn't just outside - the air inside buildings can also be polluted and affect your health. Environmental Protection Agency"
Alcohol,https://medlineplus.gov/alcohol.html,"Moderate drinking may be safe for most people. But drinking too much can be harmful, so it's important to know how alcohol affects you and how much is too much."," If you are like many Americans, you drink alcohol at least occasionally. For many people, moderate drinking is probably safe. But drinking less is better for your health than drinking more. And there are some people who should not drink at all. Because drinking too much can be harmful, it's important to know how alcohol affects you and how much is too much. How does alcohol affect the body? Alcohol is a central nervous system depressant. This means that it is a drug that slows down brain activity. It can change your mood, behavior, and self-control. It can cause problems with memory and thinking clearly. Alcohol can also affect your coordination and physical control. Alcohol also has effects on the other organs in your body. For example, it can raise your blood pressure and heart rate. If you drink too much at once, it could make you throw up. Why are the effects of alcohol different from person to person? Alcohol's effects vary from person to person, depending on a variety of factors, including: How much you drank How quickly you drank it The amount of food you ate before drinking Your age Your sex Your race or ethnicity Your physical condition Whether or not you have a family history of alcohol problems What is moderate drinking? For most women, moderate drinking is no more than one standard drink a day For most men, moderate drinking is no more than two standard drinks a day Even though moderate drinking may be safe for many people, there are still risks. Moderate drinking can raise the risk of death from certain cancers and heart diseases. What is a standard drink? In the United States, a standard drink is one that contains about 14 grams of pure alcohol, which is found in: 12 ounces of beer (5% alcohol content) 5 ounces of wine (12% alcohol content) 1.5 ounces or a ""shot"" of distilled spirits or liquor (40% alcohol content) Who should not drink alcohol? Some people should not drink alcohol at all, including those who Are recovering from an alcohol use disorder (AUD) or are unable to control the amount they drink Are under age 21 Are pregnant or trying to become pregnant Are taking medicines that can interact with alcohol Have medical conditions that get can worse if you drink alcohol Are planning on driving Will be operating machinery If you have questions about whether it is safe for you to drink, talk with your health care provider. What is excessive drinking? Excessive drinking includes binge drinking and heavy alcohol use: Binge drinking is drinking so much at once that your blood alcohol concentration (BAC) level is 0.08% or more. For a man, this usually happens after having 5 or more drinks within a few hours. For a woman, it is after about 4 or more drinks within a few hours. Heavy alcohol use is having having more than 4 drinks on any day for men or more than 3 drinks for women Binge drinking raises your risk of injuries, car crashes, and alcohol poisoning. It also puts you of becoming violent or being the victim of violence. Heavy alcohol use over a long period of time may cause health problems such as Alcohol use disorder Liver diseases , including cirrhosis and fatty liver disease Heart diseases Increased risk for certain cancers Increased risk of injuries Heavy alcohol use can also cause problems at home, at work, and with friends. But treatment can help. NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism"
Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD),https://medlineplus.gov/alcoholusedisorderaud.html,An alcohol use disorder (AUD) is drinking that causes distress and harm. AUD can range from mild to severe (alcoholism). Learn the signs that you may have a problem with drinking.," What is alcohol use disorder (AUD)? For most adults, moderate alcohol use is probably not harmful. However, about 18 million adult Americans have an alcohol use disorder (AUD). This means that their drinking causes distress and harm. AUD can range from mild to severe, depending on the symptoms. Severe AUD is sometimes called alcoholism or alcohol dependence. AUD is a disease that causes Craving - a strong need to drink Loss of control - not being able to stop drinking once you've started Negative emotional state - feeling anxious and irritable when you are not drinking What is binge drinking? Binge drinking is drinking so much at once that your blood alcohol concentration (BAC) level is 0.08% or more. For a man, this usually happens after having 5 or more drinks within a few hours. For a woman, it is after about 4 or more drinks within a few hours. Not everyone who binge drinks has an AUD, but they are at higher risk for getting one. What are the dangers of too much alcohol? Too much alcohol is dangerous. Heavy drinking can increase the risk of certain cancers. It may lead to liver diseases , such as fatty liver disease and cirrhosis . It can also cause damage to the brain and other organs. Drinking during pregnancy can harm your baby . Alcohol also increases the risk of death from car crashes, injuries, homicide, and suicide. How do I know if I have an alcohol use disorder (AUD)? You may have an AUD if you can answer yes to two or more of these questions: In the past year, have you Ended up drinking more or for a longer time than you had planned to? Wanted to cut down or stop drinking, or tried to, but couldn't? Spent a lot of your time drinking or recovering from drinking? Felt a strong need to drink? Found that drinking - or being sick from drinking - often interfered with your family life, job, or school? Kept drinking even though it was causing trouble with your family or friends? Given up or cut back on activities that you enjoyed just so you could drink? Gotten into dangerous situations while drinking or after drinking? Some examples are driving drunk and having unsafe sex. Kept drinking even though it was making you feel depressed or anxious? Or when it was adding to another health problem? Had to drink more and more to feel the effects of the alcohol? Had withdrawal symptoms when the alcohol was wearing off? They include trouble sleeping, shakiness, irritability, anxiety , depression , restlessness, nausea , and sweating . In severe cases, you could have a fever , seizures , or hallucinations. If you have any of these symptoms, your drinking may already be a cause for concern. The more symptoms you have, the more serious the problem is. What should I do if I think that I might have an alcohol use disorder (AUD)? If you think you might have an AUD, see your health care provider for an evaluation. Your provider can help make a treatment plan , prescribe medicines, and if needed, give you treatment referrals. NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism"
Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) Treatment,https://medlineplus.gov/alcoholusedisorderaudtreatment.html,An alcohol use disorder (AUD) is drinking that causes distress and harm. Learn about the medicines and behavioral therapies that treat AUD.," What is an alcohol use disorder? An alcohol use disorder (AUD) is drinking that causes distress and harm. It is a medical condition in which you Drink alcohol compulsively Can't control how much you drink Feel anxious, irritable, and/or stressed when you are not drinking An AUD can range from mild to severe, depending on the symptoms. Severe AUD is sometimes called alcoholism or alcohol dependence. What are the treatments for alcohol use disorder? Most people with an alcohol use disorder can benefit from some form of treatment. Medical treatments include medicines and behavioral therapies. For many people, using both types gives them the best results. People who are getting treatment for AUD may also find it helpful to go to a support group such as Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). If you have an AUD and a mental illness, it is important to get treatment for both. Some people may need intensive treatment for AUD. They may go to a residential treatment center for rehabilitation (rehab). Treatment there is highly structured. It usually includes several different kinds of behavioral therapies. It may also include medicines for detox (medical treatment for alcohol withdrawal) and/or for treating the AUD. Which medicines can treat alcohol use disorder? Three medicines are approved to treat AUD: Disulfiram causes unpleasant symptoms such as nausea and skin flushing whenever you drink alcohol. Knowing that drinking will cause these unpleasant effects may help you stay away from alcohol. Naltrexone blocks the receptors in your brain that make you feel good when you drink alcohol. It can also reduce your craving for alcohol. This can help you cut back on your drinking. Acamprosate helps you avoid alcohol after you have quit drinking. It works on multiple brain systems to reduce your cravings, especially just after you have quit drinking. Your health care provider can help you figure out if one of these medicines is right for you. They are not addictive, so you don't have to worry about trading one addiction for another. They are not a cure, but they can help you manage AUD. This is just like taking medicines to manage a chronic disease such as asthma or diabetes. Which behavioral therapies can treat alcohol use disorder? Another name for behavioral therapies for AUD is alcohol counseling. It involves working with a health care professional to identify and help change the behaviors that lead to your heavy drinking. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) helps you identify the feelings and situations that can lead to heavy drinking. It teaches you coping skills, including how to manage stress and how to change the thoughts that cause you to want to drink. You may get CBT one-on-one with a therapist or in small groups. Motivational enhancement therapy helps you build and strengthen the motivation to change your drinking behavior. It includes about four sessions over a short period of time. The therapy starts with identifying the pros and cons of seeking treatment. Then you and your therapist work on forming a plan for making changes in your drinking. The next sessions focus on building up your confidence and developing the skills you need to be able to stick to the plan. Marital and family counseling includes spouses and other family members. It can help to repair and improve your family relationships. Studies show that strong family support through family therapy may help you to stay away from drinking. Brief interventions are short, one-on-one or small-group counseling sessions. It includes one to four sessions. The counselor gives you information about your drinking pattern and potential risks. The counselor works with you to set goals and provide ideas that may help you make a change. Is treatment for alcohol use disorder effective? For most people, treatment for an AUD is helpful. But overcoming an alcohol use disorder is an ongoing process, and you may relapse (start drinking again). You should look at relapse as a temporary setback, and keep trying. Many people repeatedly try to cut back or quit drinking, have a setback, then try to quit again. Having a relapse does not mean that you cannot recover. If you do relapse, it is important to return to treatment right away, so you can learn more about your relapse triggers and improve your coping skills. This may help you be more successful the next time. NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism"
Allergy,https://medlineplus.gov/allergy.html,An allergy is a reaction by your immune system. Substances that cause reactions include pollen and food. Find the full list of allergies and symptoms.," An allergy is a reaction by your immune system to something that does not bother most other people. People who have allergies often are sensitive to more than one thing. Substances that often cause reactions are Pollen Dust mites Mold spores Pet dander Food Insect stings Medicines Normally, your immune system fights germs. It is your body's defense system. In most allergic reactions, however, it is responding to a false alarm. Genes and the environment probably both play a role. Allergies can cause a variety of symptoms such as a runny nose, sneezing, itching, rashes , swelling, or asthma . Allergies can range from minor to severe. Anaphylaxis is a severe reaction that can be life-threatening. Doctors use skin and blood tests to diagnose allergies. Treatments include medicines, allergy shots, and avoiding the substances that cause the reactions."
Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency,https://medlineplus.gov/alpha1antitrypsindeficiency.html,Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency is an inherited condition that raises your risk for lung and liver disease. Learn about the symptoms and treatment.," Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AAT deficiency) is an inherited condition that raises your risk for lung and liver disease. Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) is a protein that protects the lungs. The liver makes it. If the AAT proteins aren't the right shape, they get stuck in the liver cells and can't reach the lungs. Symptoms of AAT deficiency include Shortness of breath and wheezing Repeated lung infections Tiredness Rapid heartbeat upon standing Vision problems Weight loss Some people have no symptoms and do not develop complications. Blood tests and genetic tests can tell if you have it. If your lungs are affected, you may also have lung tests. Treatments include medicines, pulmonary rehab, and extra oxygen, if needed. Severe cases may need a lung transplant. Not smoking can prevent or delay lung symptoms. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Alzheimer's Caregivers,https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimerscaregivers.html,Caring for someone who has Alzheimer's Disease can be stressful and overwhelming. It's important to take care of yourself. Learn how to find support.," A caregiver gives care to someone who needs help taking care of themselves. It can be rewarding. It may help to strengthen connections to a loved one. You may feel fulfillment from helping someone else. But sometimes caregiving can be stressful and even overwhelming. This can be especially true when caring for someone with Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is an illness that changes the brain. It causes people to lose the ability to remember, think, and use good judgment. They also have trouble taking care of themselves. Over time, as the disease gets worse, they will need more and more help. As a caregiver, it is important for you to learn about AD. You will want to know what happens to the person during the different stages of the disease. This can help you plan for the future, so that you will have all of the resources you will need to be able to take care of your loved one. As a caregiver for someone with AD, your responsibilities can include Getting your loved one's health, legal, and financial affairs in order. If possible, include them in the planning while they can still make decisions. Later you will need to take over managing their finances and paying their bills. Evaluating their house and making sure it's safe for their needs Monitoring their ability to drive. You may want to hire a driving specialist who can test their driving skills. When it is no longer safe for your loved one to drive, you need to make sure that they stop. Encouraging your loved one to get some physical activity . Exercising together may make it more fun for them. Making sure that your loved one has a healthy diet Helping with daily tasks like bathing, eating, or taking medicine Doing housework and cooking Running errands such as shopping for food and clothes Driving them to appointments Providing company and emotional support Arranging medical care and making health decisions As you care for your loved one with AD, don't ignore your own needs. Caregiving can be stressful, and you need to take care of your own physical and mental health . At some point, you will not be able to do everything on your own. Make sure that you get help when you need it. There are many different services available, including Home care services Adult day care services Respite services, which provide short-term care for the person with AD Federal and state government programs that can provide financial support and services Assisted living facilities Nursing homes , some of which have special memory care units for people with AD Palliative and hospice care You might consider hiring a geriatric care manager. They are specially trained professionals who can help you to find the right services for your needs. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Alzheimer's Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimersdisease.html,"Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia among older people. Discover the symptoms, treatments, and latest Alzheimer's research."," Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia among older people. Dementia is a brain disorder that seriously affects a person's ability to carry out daily activities. AD begins slowly. It first involves the parts of the brain that control thought, memory and language. People with AD may have trouble remembering things that happened recently or names of people they know. A related problem, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), causes more memory problems than normal for people of the same age. Many, but not all, people with MCI will develop AD. In AD, over time, symptoms get worse. People may not recognize family members. They may have trouble speaking, reading or writing. They may forget how to brush their teeth or comb their hair. Later on, they may become anxious or aggressive, or wander away from home. Eventually, they need total care. This can cause great stress for family members who must care for them. AD usually begins after age 60. The risk goes up as you get older. Your risk is also higher if a family member has had the disease. No treatment can stop the disease. However, some drugs may help keep symptoms from getting worse for a limited time. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Amblyopia,https://medlineplus.gov/amblyopia.html,"Learn about amblyopia, or ""lazy eye,"" the most common cause of visual problems in children. It happens when an eye fails to work properly with the brain. "," Amblyopia, or ""lazy eye,"" is the most common cause of visual impairment in children. It happens when an eye fails to work properly with the brain. The eye may look normal, but the brain favors the other eye. In some cases, it can affect both eyes. Causes include Strabismus - a disorder in which the two eyes don't line up in the same direction Refractive error in an eye - when one eye cannot focus as well as the other, because of a problem with its shape. This includes nearsightedness, farsightedness, and astigmatism. Cataract - a clouding in the lens of the eye It can be hard to diagnose amblyopia. It is often found during a routine vision exam. Treatment for amblyopia forces the child to use the eye with weaker vision. There are two common ways to do this. One is to have the child wear a patch over the good eye for several hours each day, over a number of weeks to months. The other is with eye drops that temporarily blur vision. Each day, the child gets a drop of a drug called atropine in the stronger eye. It is also sometimes necessary to treat the underlying cause. This could include glasses or surgery. NIH: National Eye Institute"
American Indian and Alaska Native Health,https://medlineplus.gov/americanindianandalaskanativehealth.html,"Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect American Indians and Alaska Natives."," Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from: Genetics Environmental factors Access to care Cultural factors On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect American Indians and Alaska Natives."
Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/aminoacidmetabolismdisorders.html,Disorders like phenylketonuria (PKU) and maple syrup urine disease cause problems with how your body uses proteins. Learn more about them.," Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat. Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Your digestive system breaks the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body. If you have a metabolic disorder , something goes wrong with this process. One group of these disorders is amino acid metabolism disorders. They include phenylketonuria (PKU) and maple syrup urine disease. Amino acids are ""building blocks"" that join together to form proteins. If you have one of these disorders, your body may have trouble breaking down certain amino acids. Or there may be a problem getting the amino acids into your cells. These problems cause a buildup of harmful substances in your body. That can lead to serious, sometimes life-threatening, health problems. These disorders are usually inherited. A baby who is born with one may not have any symptoms right away. Because the disorders can be so serious, early diagnosis and treatment are critical. Newborn babies get screened for many of them, using blood tests. Treatments may include special diets, medicines, and supplements. Some babies may also need additional treatments if there are complications."
Amyloidosis,https://medlineplus.gov/amyloidosis.html,Amyloidosis is a rare condition that can affect different organs of the body. Find out about amyloidosis treatment and symptoms. ," Amyloidosis occurs when abnormal proteins called amyloids build up and form deposits. The deposits can collect in organs such as the kidney and heart. This can cause the organs to become stiff and unable to work the way they should. There are three main types of amyloidosis: Primary - with no known cause Secondary - caused by another disease, including some types of cancer Familial - passed down through genes Symptoms can vary, depending upon which organs are affected. Treatment depends on the type of amyloidosis you have. The goal is to help with symptoms and limit the production of proteins. If another disease is the cause, it needs to be treated."
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis,https://medlineplus.gov/amyotrophiclateralsclerosis.html,"ALS stands for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, also called Lou Gehrig's disease. ALS affects the nervous system, causing muscle problems. Find out how."," Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a nervous system disease that attacks nerve cells called neurons in your brain and spinal cord. These neurons transmit messages from your brain and spinal cord to your voluntary muscles - the ones you can control, like in your arms and legs. At first, this causes mild muscle problems. Some people notice Trouble walking or running Trouble writing Speech problems Eventually, you lose your strength and cannot move. When muscles in your chest fail, you cannot breathe. A breathing machine can help, but most people with ALS die from respiratory failure . The disease usually strikes between age 40 and 60. More men than women get it. No one knows what causes ALS. It can run in families, but usually it strikes at random. There is no cure. Medicines can relieve symptoms and, sometimes, prolong survival. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Anabolic Steroids,https://medlineplus.gov/anabolicsteroids.html,Thinking about using anabolic steroids to build muscles or improve your athletic performance? Think again. Misusing them is not legal or safe. It can cause long-term health problems.," What are anabolic steroids? Anabolic steroids are synthetic (man-made) versions of testosterone. Testosterone is the main sex hormone in men. It is needed to develop and maintain male sex characteristics, such as facial hair, deep voice, and muscle growth. Women do have some testosterone in their bodies, but in much smaller amounts. What are anabolic steroids used for? Health care providers use anabolic steroids to treat some hormone problems in men, delayed puberty , and muscle loss from some diseases. But some people misuse anabolic steroids. Why do people misuse anabolic steroids? Some bodybuilders and athletes use anabolic steroids to build muscles and improve athletic performance. They may take the steroids orally, inject them into muscles, or apply them to the skin as a gel or cream. These doses may be 10 to 100 times higher than doses used to treat medical conditions. Using them this way, without a prescription from a health care provider, is not legal or safe. What are the health effects of misusing anabolic steroids? Misuse of anabolic steroids, especially over a long period of time, has been linked to many health problems, including Acne Stunted growth in teens High blood pressure Changes in cholesterol Heart problems , including heart attack Liver disease , including cancer Kidney damage Aggressive behavior In men, it can also cause Baldness Breast growth Low sperm count/ infertility Shrinking of the testicles In women, it can also cause Changes in your menstrual cycle (period) Growth of body and facial hair Male-pattern baldness Voice deepening Are anabolic steroids addictive? Even though they don't cause a high, anabolic steroids can be addictive. You can have withdrawal symptoms if you stop using them, including Fatigue Restlessness Loss of appetite Sleep problems Decreased sex drive Steroid cravings Depression , which can sometimes be serious and even lead to suicide attempts Behavioral therapy and medicines can be helpful in treating anabolic steroid addiction. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Anal Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/analcancer.html,"Anal cancer is rare. HPV is one of the most common causes. Find out more about anal cancer symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment. "," The anus is where stool leaves your body when you go to the bathroom . It is made up of your outer layers of skin and the end of your large intestine. Anal cancer is a disease in which cancer cells form in the tissues of the anus. Anal cancer is rare. It is more common in smokers and people over 50. You are also at higher risk if you have HPV , have anal sex, or have many sexual partners. Symptoms include bleeding, pain, or lumps in the anal area. Anal itching and discharge can also be signs of anal cancer. Doctors use tests that examine the anus to diagnose anal cancer. They include a physical exam, endoscopy, ultrasound, and biopsy. Treatments include radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and surgery. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Anal Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/analdisorders.html,"Anal disorders include hemorrhoids, fistulas, and abscesses. Learn about which anal conditions are minor and those that are more serious. "," The anus is the opening of the rectum through which stool passes out of your body. Problems with the anus are common. They include hemorrhoids , abscesses , fissures (cracks), and cancer . You may be embarrassed to talk about your anal troubles. But it is important to let your doctor know, especially if you have pain or bleeding. The more details you can give about your problem, the better your doctor will be able to help you. Treatments vary depending on the particular problem. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Anaphylaxis,https://medlineplus.gov/anaphylaxis.html,"Anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shock is a serious allergic reaction. It can begin very quickly, and symptoms may be life-threatening. Read the symptoms. "," Anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction . It can begin very quickly, and symptoms may be life-threatening. The most common causes are reactions to foods (especially peanuts), medications , and stinging insects . Other causes include exercise and exposure to latex . Sometimes no cause can be found. It can affect many organs: Skin - itching, hives, redness, swelling Nose - sneezing, stuffy nose, runny nose Mouth - itching, swelling of the lips or tongue Throat - itching, tightness, trouble swallowing, swelling of the back of the throat Chest - shortness of breath, coughing, wheezing, chest pain or tightness Heart - weak pulse, passing out, shock Gastrointestinal tract - vomiting, diarrhea, cramps Nervous system - dizziness or fainting If someone is having a serious allergic reaction, call 911. If an auto-injector is available, give the person the injection right away."
Anatomy,https://medlineplus.gov/anatomy.html,Anatomy is the science that studies the structure of the body. Learn about the organs and body parts.," Anatomy is the science that studies the structure of the body. On this page, you'll find links to descriptions and pictures of the human body's parts and organ systems from head to toe."
Anemia,https://medlineplus.gov/anemia.html,Anemia occurs when your blood doesn't carry enough oxygen to the rest of your body. Read about conditions that lead to it and treatments available.," If you have anemia, your blood does not carry enough oxygen to the rest of your body. The most common cause of anemia is not having enough iron . Your body needs iron to make hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that gives the red color to blood. It carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. Anemia has three main causes: blood loss, lack of red blood cell production, and high rates of red blood cell destruction. Conditions that may lead to anemia include Heavy periods Pregnancy Ulcers Colon polyps or colon cancer Inherited disorders A diet that does not have enough iron, folic acid or vitamin B12 Blood disorders such as sickle cell anemia and thalassemia , or cancer Aplastic anemia , a condition that can be inherited or acquired G6PD deficiency , a metabolic disorder Anemia can make you feel tired, cold, dizzy, and irritable. You may be short of breath or have a headache. Your doctor will diagnose anemia with a physical exam and blood tests. Treatment depends on the kind of anemia you have. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Anesthesia,https://medlineplus.gov/anesthesia.html,"Local, regional, general - all are types of anesthesia. Learn about how anesthesia reduces or blocks pain before a surgery. "," What is anesthesia? Anesthesia is the use of medicines to prevent pain during surgery and other procedures. These medicines are called anesthetics. They may be given by injection, inhalation, topical lotion, spray, eye drops, or skin patch. They cause you to have a loss of feeling or awareness. What is anesthesia used for? Anesthesia may be used in minor procedures, such as filling a tooth. It could be used during childbirth or procedures such as colonoscopies . And it is used during minor and major surgeries. In some cases, a dentist, nurse, or doctor may give you an anesthetic. In other cases, you may need an anesthesiologist. This is a doctor who specializes in giving anesthesia. What are the types of anesthesia? There are several different types of anesthesia: Local anesthesia numbs a small part of the body. It might be used on a tooth that needs to be pulled or on a small area around a wound that needs stitches. You are awake and alert during local anesthesia. Regional anesthesia is used for larger areas of the body such as an arm, a leg, or everything below the waist. You may be awake during the procedure, or you may be given sedation. Regional anesthesia may be used during childbirth, a Cesarean section (C-section), or minor surgeries. General anesthesia affects the whole body. It makes you unconscious and unable to move. It is used during major surgeries, such as heart surgery , brain surgery, back surgery, and organ transplants . What are the risks of anesthesia? Anesthesia is generally safe. But there can be risks, especially with general anesthesia, including: Heart rhythm or breathing problems An allergic reaction to the anesthesia Delirium after general anesthesia. Delirium makes people confused. They may be unclear about what is happening to them. Some people over the age of 60 have delirium for several days after surgery. It can also happen to children when they first wake up from anesthesia. Awareness when someone is under general anesthesia. This usually means that the person hears sounds. But sometimes they can feel pain. This is rare."
Aneurysms,https://medlineplus.gov/aneurysms.html,An aneurysm is a bulge in the wall of an artery and can develop and grow for years without causing any symptoms. Learn about tests and treatment.," An aneurysm is a bulge or ""ballooning"" in the wall of an artery. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to other parts of the body. If an aneurysm grows large, it can burst and cause dangerous bleeding or even death. Most aneurysms occur in the aorta , the main artery that runs from the heart through the chest and abdomen. Aneurysms also can happen in arteries in the brain, heart and other parts of the body. If an aneurysm in the brain bursts, it causes a stroke . Aneurysms can develop and become large before causing any symptoms. Often doctors can stop aneurysms from bursting if they find and treat them early. They use imaging tests to find aneurysms. Often aneurysms are found by chance during tests done for other reasons. Medicines and surgery are the two main treatments for aneurysms. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Angina,https://medlineplus.gov/angina.html,Angina is chest pain or discomfort when there is not enough blood flow to your heart muscle. Learn about angina symptoms and treatment.," Angina is chest pain or discomfort you feel when there is not enough blood flow to your heart muscle. Your heart muscle needs the oxygen that the blood carries. Angina may feel like pressure or a squeezing pain in your chest. It may feel like indigestion. You may also feel pain in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina is a symptom of coronary artery disease (CAD), the most common heart disease . CAD happens when a sticky substance called plaque builds up in the arteries that supply blood to the heart, reducing blood flow. There are three types of angina: Stable angina is the most common type. It happens when the heart is working harder than usual. Stable angina has a regular pattern. Rest and medicines usually help. Unstable angina is the most dangerous. It does not follow a pattern and can happen without physical exertion. It does not go away with rest or medicine. It is a sign that you could have a heart attack soon. Variant angina is rare. It happens when you are resting. Medicines can help. Not all chest pain or discomfort is angina. If you have chest pain, you should see your health care provider. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Angioplasty,https://medlineplus.gov/angioplasty.html,Angioplasty is a procedure to restore blood flow through narrow or blocked arteries. Learn about how stents and angioplasty work.," If you have coronary artery disease , the arteries in your heart are narrowed or blocked by a sticky material called plaque. Angioplasty is a procedure to restore blood flow through the artery. You have angioplasty in a hospital. The doctor threads a thin tube through a blood vessel in the arm or groin up to the involved site in the artery. The tube has a tiny balloon on the end. When the tube is in place, the doctor inflates the balloon to push the plaque outward against the wall of the artery. This widens the artery and restores blood flow. Doctors may use angioplasty to Reduce chest pain caused by reduced blood flow to the heart Minimize damage to heart muscle from a heart attack Many people go home the day after angioplasty, and are able to return to work within a week of coming home. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Animal Bites,https://medlineplus.gov/animalbites.html,Wild animals might attack if they are threatened or acting protective. Attacks by pets are more common. Learn how to avoid both types of animal bites.," Wild animals usually avoid people. They might attack, however, if they feel threatened, are sick, or are protecting their young or territory. Attacks by pets are more common. Animal bites rarely are life-threatening, but if they become infected, you can develop serious medical problems. To prevent animal bites and complications from bites Never pet, handle, or feed unknown animals Leave snakes alone Watch your children closely around animals Vaccinate your cats, ferrets, and dogs against rabies Spay or neuter your dog to make it less aggressive Get a tetanus booster if you have not had one recently Wear boots and long pants when you are in areas with venomous snakes If an animal bites you, clean the wound with soap and water as soon as possible. Get medical attention if necessary. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Animal Diseases and Your Health,https://medlineplus.gov/animaldiseasesandyourhealth.html,You may know that some animal diseases can have an effect on humans. Find out more about animal diseases and your health. ," Animal diseases that people can catch are called zoonoses. Many diseases affecting humans can be traced to animals or animal products. You can get a disease directly from an animal, or indirectly, through the environment. Farm animals can carry diseases. If you touch them or things they have touched, like fencing or buckets, wash your hands thoroughly. Adults should make sure children who visit farms or petting zoos wash up as well. Though they may be cute and cuddly, wild animals may carry germs, viruses, and parasites. Deer and deer mice carry ticks that cause Lyme disease . Some wild animals may carry rabies . Enjoy wildlife from a distance. Pets can also make you sick. Reptiles pose a particular risk. Turtles, snakes and iguanas can transmit Salmonella bacteria to their owners. You can get rabies from an infected dog or toxoplasmosis from handling kitty litter of an infected cat. The chance that your dog or cat will make you sick is small. You can reduce the risk by practicing good hygiene, keeping pet areas clean and keeping your pets' shots up-to-date."
Ankle Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/ankleinjuriesanddisorders.html,Ankle injuries and ankle disorders can affect tendons and cartilage. Learn about different kinds of ankle problems including sprains and fractures.," Your ankle bone and the ends of your two lower leg bones make up the ankle joint. Your ligaments, which connect bones to one another, stabilize and support it. Your muscles and tendons move it. The most common ankle problems are sprains and fractures (broken bones). A sprain is an injury to the ligaments. It may take a few weeks to many months to heal completely. A fracture is a break in a bone. You can also injure other parts of the ankle such as tendons, which join muscles to bone, and cartilage, which cushions your joints. Ankle sprains and fractures are common sports injuries ."
Ankylosing Spondylitis,https://medlineplus.gov/ankylosingspondylitis.html,Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis. It causes inflammation between vertebrae and in the joints between spine and pelvis. Learn more.," Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis of the spine. It causes inflammation between your vertebrae, which are the bones that make up your spine, and in the joints between your spine and pelvis. In some people, it can affect other joints. AS is more common and more severe in men. It often runs in families. The cause is unknown, but it is likely that both genes and factors in the environment play a role. Early symptoms of AS include back pain and stiffness. These problems often start in late adolescence or early adulthood. Over time, AS can fuse your vertebrae together, limiting movement. Some people have symptoms that come and go. Others have severe, ongoing pain. A diagnosis of AS is based on your medical history and a physical examination. You may also have imaging or blood tests. AS has no cure, but medicines can relieve symptoms and may keep the disease from getting worse. Eating a healthy diet, not smoking, and exercising can also help. In rare cases, you may need surgery to straighten the spine. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disease"
Anthrax,https://medlineplus.gov/anthrax.html,"You probably won't have to worry about getting anthrax disease.  We offer information about anthrax symptoms, causes, vaccine, and treatment. "," Anthrax is a disease caused by Bacillus anthracis, a germ that lives in soil. Many people know about it from the 2001 bioterror attacks. In the attacks, someone purposely spread anthrax through the U.S. mail. This killed five people and made 22 sick. Anthrax is rare. It affects animals such as cattle, sheep, and goats more often than people. People can get anthrax from contact with infected animals, wool, meat, or hides. It can cause three forms of disease in people. They are Cutaneous, which affects the skin. People with cuts or open sores can get it if they touch the bacteria. Inhalation, which affects the lungs. You can get this if you breathe in spores of the bacteria. Gastrointestinal, which affects the digestive system. You can get it by eating infected meat. Antibiotics often cure anthrax if it is diagnosed early. But many people don't know they have anthrax until it is too late to treat. A vaccine to prevent anthrax is available for people in the military and others at high risk."
Antibiotic Resistance,https://medlineplus.gov/antibioticresistance.html,Antibiotics can save lives. But when they are not used correctly they can become less effective.  Avoid antibiotic resistance by reading more.," Antibiotics are medicines that fight bacterial infections . Used properly, they can save lives. But there is a growing problem of antibiotic resistance. It happens when bacteria change and become able to resist the effects of an antibiotic. Using antibiotics can lead to resistance. Each time you take antibiotics, sensitive bacteria are killed. But resistant germs may be left to grow and multiply. They can spread to other people. They can also cause infections that certain antibiotics cannot cure. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) is one example. It causes infections that are resistant to several common antibiotics. To help prevent antibiotic resistance Don't use antibiotics for viruses like colds or flu. Antibiotics don't work on viruses. Don't pressure your doctor to give you an antibiotic. When you take antibiotics, follow the directions carefully. Finish your medicine even if you feel better. If you stop treatment too soon, some bacteria may survive and re-infect you. Don't save antibiotics for later or use someone else's prescription. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Antibiotics,https://medlineplus.gov/antibiotics.html,"Used properly, antibiotics can save lives by fighting bacterial infections. Read about how to use antibiotics and about when not to use antibiotics."," What are antibiotics? Antibiotics are medicines that fight bacterial infections in people and animals. They work by killing the bacteria or by making it hard for the bacteria to grow and multiply. Antibiotics can be taken in different ways: Orally (by mouth). This could be pills, capsules, or liquids. Topically. This might be a cream, spray, or ointment that you put on your skin. It could also be eye or ear drops. Through an injection or intravenously (I.V). This is usually for more serious infections. What do antibiotics treat? Antibiotics only treat certain bacterial infections, such as strep throat, urinary tract infections , and E. coli . You may not need to take antibiotics for some bacterial infections. For example, you might not need them for many sinus infections or some ear infections . Taking antibiotics when they're not needed won't help you, and they can have side effects. Your health care provider can decide the best treatment for you when you're sick. Don't pressure your provider to prescribe an antibiotic for you. Do antibiotics treat viral infections? Antibiotics do not work on viral infections. For example, you shouldn't take antibiotics for Colds and runny noses, even if the mucus is thick, yellow, or green Most sore throats (except strep throat) Flu Most cases of bronchitis What are the side effects of antibiotics? The side effects of antibiotics range from minor to very severe. Some of the common side effects include Rash Nausea Diarrhea Yeast infections More serious side effects can include C. diff infections , which cause diarrhea that can lead to severe colon damage and sometimes even death Severe and life-threatening allergic reactions Call your health care provider if you develop any side effects while taking your antibiotic. Why is it important to take antibiotics only when they're needed? You should only take antibiotics when they are needed because they can cause side effects and can contribute to antibiotic resistance . Antibiotic resistance happens when the bacteria change and become able to resist the effects of an antibiotic. This means that the bacteria are not killed and continue to grow. How do I use antibiotics correctly? When you take antibiotics, it is important that you take them responsibly: Always follow the directions carefully. Finish your medicine even if you feel better. If you stop taking them too soon, some bacteria may survive and re-infect you. Don't save your antibiotics for later Don't share your antibiotic with others Don't take antibiotics prescribed for someone else. This may delay the best treatment for you, make you even sicker, or cause side effects. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Antidepressants,https://medlineplus.gov/antidepressants.html,"Many people take antidepressants. Learn about antidepressant side effect, the different types of antidepressants, and more."," Antidepressants are medicines that treat depression . Your doctor can prescribe them for you. They work to balance some of the natural chemicals in our brains. It may take several weeks for them to help. There are several types of antidepressants. You and your doctor may have to try a few before finding what works best for you. Antidepressants may cause mild side effects that usually do not last long. These may include headache, nausea, sleep problems, restlessness, and sexual problems. Tell your doctor if you have any side effects. You should also let your doctor know if you take any other medicines, vitamins, or herbal supplements. It is important to keep taking your medicines, even if you feel better. Do not stop taking your medicines without talking to your doctor. You often need to stop antidepressants gradually. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Antioxidants,https://medlineplus.gov/antioxidants.html,Antioxidants can protect cells against free radicals that can cause damage. But there is a lot of misinformation. Get the facts. ," Antioxidants are man-made or natural substances that may prevent or delay some types of cell damage. Antioxidants are found in many foods, including fruits and vegetables. They are also available as dietary supplements. Examples of antioxidants include Beta-carotene Lutein Lycopene Selenium Vitamin A Vitamin C Vitamin E Vegetables and fruits are rich sources of antioxidants. There is good evidence that eating a diet with lots of vegetables and fruits is healthy and lowers risks of certain diseases. But it isn't clear whether this is because of the antioxidants, something else in the foods, or other factors. High-dose supplements of antioxidants may be linked to health risks in some cases. For example, high doses of beta-carotene may increase the risk of lung cancer in smokers. High doses of vitamin E may increase risks of prostate cancer and one type of stroke. Antioxidant supplements may also interact with some medicines. To minimize risk, tell you of your health care providers about any antioxidants you use. NIH: National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health"
Anxiety,https://medlineplus.gov/anxiety.html,It's normal to be anxious at times. It may be time to get help if anxiety attack is severe or when anxiety doesn't stop. Learn about anxiety disorders.  ," What is anxiety? Anxiety is a feeling of fear, dread, and uneasiness. It might cause you to sweat, feel restless and tense, and have a rapid heartbeat. It can be a normal reaction to stress. For example, you might feel anxious when faced with a difficult problem at work, before taking a test, or before making an important decision. It can help you to cope. The anxiety may give you a boost of energy or help you focus. But for people with anxiety disorders, the fear is not temporary and can be overwhelming. What are anxiety disorders? Anxiety disorders are conditions in which you have anxiety that does not go away and can get worse over time. The symptoms can interfere with daily activities such as job performance, schoolwork, and relationships. What are the types of anxiety disorders? There are several types of anxiety disorders, including Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). People with GAD worry about ordinary issues such as health, money, work, and family. But their worries are excessive, and they have them almost every day for at least 6 months. Panic disorder . People with panic disorder have panic attacks. These are sudden, repeated periods of intense fear when there is no danger. The attacks come on quickly and can last several minutes or more. Phobias . People with phobias have an intense fear of something that poses little or no actual danger. Their fear may be about spiders, flying, going to crowded places, or being in social situations (known as social anxiety). What causes anxiety disorders? The cause of anxiety is unknown. Factors such as genetics, brain biology and chemistry, stress , and your environment may play a role. Who is at risk for anxiety disorders? The risk factors for the different types of anxiety disorders can vary. For example, GAD and phobias are more common in women, but social anxiety affects men and women equally. There are some general risk factors for all types of anxiety disorders, including Certain personality traits, such as being shy or withdrawn when you are in new situations or meeting new people Traumatic events in early childhood or adulthood Family history of anxiety or other mental disorders Some physical health conditions, such as thyroid problems or arrhythmia What are the symptoms of anxiety disorders? The different types of anxiety disorders can have different symptoms. But they all have a combination of Anxious thoughts or beliefs that are hard to control. They make you feel restless and tense and interfere with your daily life. They do not go away and can get worse over time. Physical symptoms, such as a pounding or rapid heartbeat, unexplained aches and pains, dizziness , and shortness of breath Changes in behavior, such as avoiding everyday activities you used to do Using caffeine , other substances, and certain medicines can make your symptoms worse. How are anxiety disorders diagnosed? To diagnose anxiety disorders, your health care provider will ask about your symptoms and medical history. You may also have a physical exam and lab tests to make sure that a different health problem is not the cause of your symptoms. If you don't have another health problem, you will get a psychological evaluation . Your provider may do it, or you may be referred to a mental health professional to get one. What are the treatments for anxiety disorders? The main treatments for anxiety disorders are psychotherapy (talk therapy), medicines, or both: Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy that is often used to treat anxiety disorders. CBT teaches you different ways of thinking and behaving. It can help you change how you react to the things that cause you to feel fear and anxiety. It may include exposure therapy. This focuses on having you confront your fears so that you will be able to do the things that you had been avoiding. Medicines to treat anxiety disorders include anti-anxiety medicines and certain antidepressants . Some types of medicines may work better for specific types of anxiety disorders. You should work closely with your health care provider to identify which medicine is best for you. You may need to try more than one medicine before you can find the right one. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Aortic Aneurysm,https://medlineplus.gov/aorticaneurysm.html,"An aneurysm is a bulge or ""ballooning"" in the wall of an artery. Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Learn more."," An aneurysm is a bulge or ""ballooning"" in the wall of an artery. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to other parts of the body. If an aneurysm grows large, it can burst and cause dangerous bleeding or even death. Most aneurysms are in the aorta, the main artery that runs from the heart through the chest and abdomen. There are two types of aortic aneurysm: Thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAA) - these occur in the part of the aorta running through the chest Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) - these occur in the part of the aorta running through the abdomen Most aneurysms are found during tests done for other reasons. Some people are at high risk for aneurysms. It is important for them to get screening, because aneurysms can develop and become large before causing any symptoms. Screening is recommended for people between the ages of 65 and 75 if they have a family history, or if they are men who have smoked. Doctors use imaging tests to find aneurysms. Medicines and surgery are the two main treatments. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Aphasia,https://medlineplus.gov/aphasia.html,"Aphasia is a disorder caused by damage to the parts of the brain that control language. It can make it hard for you to read, write, and speak. "," Aphasia is a disorder caused by damage to the parts of the brain that control language. It can make it hard for you to read, write, and say what you mean to say. It is most common in adults who have had a stroke . Brain tumors, infections, injuries, and dementia can also cause it. The type of problem you have and how bad it is depends on which part of your brain is damaged and how much damage there is. There are four main types: Expressive aphasia - you know what you want to say, but you have trouble saying or writing what you mean Receptive aphasia - you hear the voice or see the print, but you can't make sense of the words Anomic aphasia - you have trouble using the correct word for objects, places, or events Global aphasia - you can't speak, understand speech, read, or write Some people recover from aphasia without treatment. Most, however, need language therapy as soon as possible. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Aplastic Anemia,https://medlineplus.gov/aplasticanemia.html,"Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious blood disorder. If you have it, your bone marrow doesn't make enough new blood cells. Read more on the causes. "," Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious blood disorder. If you have it, your bone marrow doesn't make enough new blood cells. There are different types, including Fanconi anemia. Causes include Toxic substances, such as pesticides, arsenic, and benzene Radiation therapy and chemotherapy for cancer Certain medicines Infections such as hepatitis, Epstein-Barr virus, or HIV Autoimmune disorders Certain inherited conditions Pregnancy In many people, the cause is unknown. Symptoms include fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and shortness of breath. It can cause heart problems such as an irregular heartbeat , an enlarged heart, and heart failure . You may also have frequent infections and bleeding . Your doctor will diagnose aplastic anemia based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results. Once your doctor knows the cause and severity of the condition, he or she can create a treatment plan for you. Treatments include blood transfusions , blood and marrow stem cell transplants , and medicines. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Appendicitis,https://medlineplus.gov/appendicitis.html,"You don't have to be young to have appendicitis. Learn to identify signs, symptoms and more about this painful and serious condition."," The appendix is a small, tube-like organ attached to the first part of the large intestine. It is located in the lower right part of the abdomen. It has no known function. A blockage inside of the appendix causes appendicitis. The blockage leads to increased pressure, problems with blood flow, and inflammation. If the blockage is not treated, the appendix can burst and spread infection into the abdomen. This causes a condition called peritonitis . The main symptom is pain in the abdomen, often on the right side. It is usually sudden and gets worse over time. Other symptoms may include Swelling in the abdomen Loss of appetite Nausea and vomiting Constipation or diarrhea Inability to pass gas Low fever Not everyone with appendicitis has all these symptoms. Appendicitis is a medical emergency. Treatment almost always involves removing the appendix. Anyone can get appendicitis, but it is more common among people 10 to 30 years old. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Arm Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/arminjuriesanddisorders.html,"Arm injuries and arm disorders can be caused by nerve problems, cancers, sprains, dislocations, Tendinitis and conditions such as Arthritis. "," Of the 206 bones in your body, three of them are in your arm: the humerus, radius, and ulna. Your arms are also made up of muscles, joints, tendons, and other connective tissue. Injuries to any of these parts of the arm can occur during sports, a fall, or an accident. Types of arm injuries include Tendinitis and bursitis Sprains Dislocations Fractures (broken bones) Nerve problems Osteoarthritis You may also have problems or injure specific parts of your arm, such as your hand , wrist , elbow , or shoulder ."
Arrhythmia,https://medlineplus.gov/arrhythmia.html,"Arrhythmia, also called irregular heartbeat comes in different types. The most common is atrial fibrillation. Read about symptoms and treatment."," An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of your heartbeat. It means that your heart beats too quickly, too slowly, or with an irregular pattern. When the heart beats faster than normal, it is called tachycardia. When the heart beats too slowly, it is called bradycardia. The most common type of arrhythmia is atrial fibrillation , which causes an irregular and fast heart beat. Many factors can affect your heart's rhythm, such as having had a heart attack , smoking, congenital heart defects , and stress. Some substances or medicines may also cause arrhythmias. Symptoms of arrhythmias include Fast or slow heart beat Skipping beats Lightheadedness or dizziness Chest pain Shortness of breath Sweating Your doctor can run tests to find out if you have an arrhythmia. Treatment to restore a normal heart rhythm may include medicines, an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) or pacemaker , or sometimes surgery. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Arsenic,https://medlineplus.gov/arsenic.html,"Arsenic can be in food, soil, and water. Low levels will probably not hurt you, but higher levels can cause problems. Learn more about arsenic.  "," Arsenic is a natural element found in soil and minerals. Arsenic compounds are used to preserve wood, as pesticides, and in some industries. Arsenic can get into air, water, and the ground from wind-blown dust. It may also get into water from runoff. You may be exposed to arsenic by Taking in small amounts in food, drinking water , or air Breathing sawdust or burning smoke from arsenic-treated wood Living in an area with high levels of arsenic in rock Working in a job where arsenic is made or used Exposure to arsenic can cause many health problems. Being exposed to low levels for a long time can change the color of your skin. It can cause corns and small warts. Exposure to high levels of arsenic can cause death. Agency for Toxic Substances Disease Registry"
Arteriovenous Malformations,https://medlineplus.gov/arteriovenousmalformations.html,"Arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are defects in your arteries, veins, and capillaries. It is common in the brain and spine. Find out more."," Arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are defects in your vascular system. Your vascular system is your body's network of blood vessels. It includes your Arteries, which carry oxygen-rich blood from your heart to your tissues and organs Veins, which carry the blood and waste products back to your heart Capillaries, which are tiny blood vessels that connect your small arteries to your small veins An AVM is a snarled tangle of arteries and veins. They are connected to each other, with no capillaries. That interferes with the blood circulation in an organ. AVMs can happen anywhere, but they are more common in the brain or spinal cord. Most people with brain or spinal cord AVMs have few, if any, major symptoms. Sometimes they can cause seizures or headaches . AVMs are rare. The cause of AVMs is unknown, but they seem to develop during pregnancy or soon after birth. Doctors use imaging tests to detect them. Medicines can help with the symptoms from AVMs. The greatest danger is hemorrhage . Treatment for AVMs can include surgery or focused radiation therapy. Because surgery can be risky, you and your doctor need to make a decision carefully. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Arthritis,https://medlineplus.gov/arthritis.html,"Arthritis can cause pain, swelling and stiffness in and around the joints. Learn about the different types of Arthritis and how they can affect you.  "," If you feel pain and stiffness in your body or have trouble moving around, you might have arthritis. Most kinds of arthritis cause pain and swelling in your joints. Joints are places where two bones meet, such as your elbow or knee. Over time, a swollen joint can become severely damaged. Some kinds of arthritis can also cause problems in your organs, such as your eyes or skin. Types of arthritis include Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis. It's often related to aging or to an injury. Autoimmune arthritis happens when your body's immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Rheumatoid arthritis is the most common form of this kind of arthritis. Juvenile arthritis is a type of arthritis that happens in children. Infectious arthritis is an infection that has spread from another part of the body to the joint. Psoriatic arthritis affects people with psoriasis. Gout is a painful type of arthritis that happens when too much uric acid builds up in the body. It often starts in the big toe. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Artificial Limbs,https://medlineplus.gov/artificiallimbs.html,"Artificial limbs, or prosthetics, can allow a person to do activities they might not be able to do otherwise. Learn more about artificial limbs."," People can lose all or part of an arm or leg for a number of reasons. Common ones include Circulation problems from atherosclerosis or diabetes. They may cause you to need an amputation . Traumatic injuries, including from traffic accidents and military combat Cancer Birth defects If you are missing an arm or leg, an artificial limb can sometimes replace it. The device, which is called a prosthesis, can help you to perform daily activities such as walking, eating, or dressing. Some artificial limbs let you function nearly as well as before."
Asbestos,https://medlineplus.gov/asbestos.html,Asbestos is the name of a group of minerals with thin fibers. Breathing high levels of asbestos can lead to mesothelioma or lung cancer. Read more.," Asbestos is the name of a group of minerals with long, thin fibers. It was once used widely as insulation. It also occurs in the environment. Asbestos fibers are so small you can't see them. If you disturb asbestos, the fibers can float in the air. This makes them easy to inhale, and some may become lodged in the lungs. If you breathe in high levels of asbestos over a long period of time, the fibers can build up in the lungs. This causes scarring and inflammation, and can affect breathing. Eventually it can lead to diseases such as Asbestosis, or scarring of the lungs that makes it hard to breathe Mesothelioma , a rare cancer that affects the lining of the lungs or abdomen Lung cancer Lung diseases associated with asbestos usually develop over many years. People who become ill from asbestos are usually exposed on the job over long periods of time. Smoking cigarettes increases the risk. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry"
Asian American Health,https://medlineplus.gov/asianamericanhealth.html,Asian Americans may have different health issues than the general population. Find out more.," Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from Genetics Environmental factors Access to care Cultural factors On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Asian Americans."
Aspergillosis,https://medlineplus.gov/aspergillosis.html,"Find out about symptoms, tests, and treatment of aspergillosis, a disease caused by a fungus. "," Aspergillosis is a disease caused by a fungus (or mold) called Aspergillus. The fungus is very common in both indoors and outdoors. Most people breathe in the spores of the fungus every day without being affected. But some people get the disease. It usually occurs in people with lung diseases or weakened immune systems. There are different kinds of aspergillosis. One kind is allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (also called ABPA). Symptoms of ABPA include wheezing and coughing. ABPA can affect healthy people but it is most common in people with asthma or cystic fibrosis. Another kind is invasive aspergillosis, which damages tissues in the body. It usually affects the lungs. Sometimes it can also cause infection in other organs and spread throughout the body. It affects people who have immune system problems, such as people who have had a transplant, are taking high doses of steroids, or getting chemotherapy for some cancers. Your doctor might do a variety of tests to make the diagnosis, including a chest x-ray, CT scan of the lungs, and an examination of tissues for signs of the fungus. Treatment is with antifungal drugs. If you have ABPA, you may also take steroids. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Assisted Living,https://medlineplus.gov/assistedliving.html,Many people need help as they age. Assisted living facilities can provide care that you or you loved ones may need. Learn more.," Assisted living is housing and services for people who need some help with daily care. They may need help with things like dressing, bathing, taking their medicines, and cleaning. But they do not need the medical care that a nursing home provides. Assisted living allows the residents to live more independently. Assisted living facilities sometimes have other names, such as adult care facilities or residential care facilities. They vary in size, with as few as 25 residents up to 120 residents or more. The residents usually live in their own apartments or rooms and share common areas. The facilities usually offer a few different levels of care. Residents pay more for the higher levels of care. The types of services they offer may be different from state to state. The services may include Up to three meals a day Assistance with personal care, such as bathing, dressing, eating, getting in and out of bed or chairs, moving around, and using the bathroom Help with medicines Housekeeping Laundry 24-hour supervision, security, and on-site staff Social and recreational activities Transportation The residents are usually older adults, including those with Alzheimer's or other types of dementia . But in some cases, residents may be younger and have mental illnesses , developmental disabilities , or certain medical conditions. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Assisted Reproductive Technology,https://medlineplus.gov/assistedreproductivetechnology.html,Learn about treating infertility with assisted reproductive technology (ART). It includes procedures like in vitro fertilization (IVF).," Assisted reproductive technology (ART) is used to treat infertility . It includes fertility treatments that handle both a woman's egg and a man's sperm. It works by removing eggs from a woman's body. The eggs are then mixed with sperm to make embryos. The embryos are then put back in the woman's body. In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the most common and effective type of ART. ART procedures sometimes use donor eggs, donor sperm, or previously frozen embryos. It may also involve a surrogate or gestational carrier. A surrogate is a woman who becomes pregnant with sperm from the male partner of the couple. A gestational carrier becomes pregnant with an egg from the female partner and the sperm from the male partner. The most common complication of ART is a multiple pregnancy . It can be prevented or minimized by limiting the number of embryos that are put into the woman's body."
Assistive Devices,https://medlineplus.gov/assistivedevices.html,Learn about assistive devices and how they can help you if you are disabled or injured. ," If you have a disability or injury, you may use a number of assistive devices. These are tools, products or types of equipment that help you perform tasks and activities. They may help you move around, see, communicate, eat, or get dressed. Some are high-tech tools, such as computers. Others are much simpler, like a ""reacher"" - a tool that helps you grab an object you can't reach."
Asthma,https://medlineplus.gov/asthma.html,Asthma causes one's airways to become sore and swollen. An attack means a person's lungs are getting less air. Learn about two types of treatment.," What is asthma? Asthma is a chronic (long-term) lung disease. It affects your airways, the tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs. When you have asthma, your airways can become inflamed and narrowed. This can cause wheezing, coughing , and tightness in your chest. When these symptoms get worse than usual, it is called an asthma attack or flare-up. What causes asthma? The exact cause of asthma is unknown. Genetics and your environment likely play a role in who gets asthma. An asthma attack can happen when you are exposed to an asthma trigger. An asthma trigger is something that can set off or worsen your asthma symptoms. Different triggers can cause different types of asthma: Allergic asthma is caused by allergens. Allergens are substances that cause an allergic reaction. They can include Dust mites Mold Pets Pollen from grass, trees, and weeds Waste from pests such as cockroaches and mice Nonallergic asthma is caused by triggers that are not allergens, such as Breathing in cold air Certain medicines Household chemicals Infections such as colds and the flu Outdoor air pollution Tobacco smoke Occupational asthma is caused by breathing in chemicals or industrial dusts at work Exercise-induced asthma happens during physical exercise, especially when the air is dry Asthma triggers may be different for each person and can change over time. Who is at risk for asthma? Asthma affects people of all ages, but it often starts during childhood. Certain factors can raise your risk of having asthma: Being exposed to secondhand smoke when your mother is pregnant with you or when you are a small child Being exposed to certain substances at work , such as chemical irritants or industrial dusts Genetics and family history. You are more likely to have asthma if one of your parents has it, especially if it's your mother. Race or ethnicity. Black and African Americans and Puerto Ricans are at higher risk of asthma than people of other races or ethnicities. Having other medical conditions such as allergies and obesity Often having viral respiratory infections as a young child Sex. In children, asthma is more common in boys. In teens and adults, it is more common in women. What are the symptoms of asthma? The symptoms of asthma include Chest tightness Coughing, especially at night or early morning Shortness of breath Wheezing, which causes a whistling sound when you exhale These symptoms can range from mild to severe. You may have them every day or only once in a while. When you are having an asthma attack, your symptoms get much worse. The attacks may come on gradually or suddenly. Sometimes they can be life-threatening. They are more common in people who have severe asthma. If you are having asthma attacks, you may need a change in your treatment. How is asthma diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose asthma: Physical exam Medical history Lung function tests , including spirometry, to test how well your lungs work Tests to measure how your airways react to specific exposures. During this test, you inhale different concentrations of allergens or medicines that may tighten the muscles in your airways. Spirometry is done before and after the test. Peak expiratory flow (PEF) tests to measure how fast you can blow air out using maximum effort Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) tests to measure levels of nitric oxide in your breath when you breathe out. High levels of nitric oxide may mean that your lungs are inflamed. Allergy skin or blood tests, if you have a history of allergies. These tests check which allergens cause a reaction from your immune system. What are the treatments for asthma? If you have asthma, you will work with your health care provider to create a treatment plan. The plan will include ways to manage your asthma symptoms and prevent asthma attacks. It will include Strategies to avoid triggers. For example, if tobacco smoke is a trigger for you, you should not smoke or allow other people to smoke in your home or car. Short-term relief medicines, also called quick-relief medicines. They help prevent symptoms or relieve symptoms during an asthma attack. They include an inhaler to carry with you all the time. It may also include other types of medicines which work quickly to help open your airways. Control medicines. You take them every day to help prevent symptoms. They work by reducing airway inflammation and preventing narrowing of the airways. If you have a severe attack and the short-term relief medicines do not work, you will need emergency care. Your provider may adjust your treatment until asthma symptoms are controlled. Sometimes asthma is severe and cannot be controlled with other treatments. If you are an adult with uncontrolled asthma, in some cases your provider might suggest bronchial thermoplasty. This is a procedure that uses heat to shrink the smooth muscle in the lungs. Shrinking the muscle reduces your airway's ability to tighten and allows you to breathe more easily. The procedure has some risks, so it's important to discuss them with your provider."
Asthma in Children,https://medlineplus.gov/asthmainchildren.html,"Children's airways are small, making asthma more serious for them. Learn the symptoms, what can cause an attack, and long term treatments."," Asthma is a chronic disease that affects your airways. Your airways are tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs. If you have asthma, the inside walls of your airways become sore and swollen. In the United States, about 20 million people have asthma . Nearly 9 million of them are children. Children have smaller airways than adults, which makes asthma especially serious for them. Children with asthma may experience wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and trouble breathing, especially early in the morning or at night. Many things can cause asthma, including Allergens - mold, pollen, animals Irritants - cigarette smoke, air pollution Weather - cold air, changes in weather Exercise Infections - flu, common cold When asthma symptoms become worse than usual, it is called an asthma attack. Asthma is treated with two kinds of medicines: quick-relief medicines to stop asthma symptoms and long-term control medicines to prevent symptoms."
Ataxia Telangiectasia,https://medlineplus.gov/ataxiatelangiectasia.html,"Ataxia Telangiectasia (AT) is an inherited disease that affects several body systems, including the nervous system and immune system. Discover more."," Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a rare, inherited disease. It affects the nervous system, immune system, and other body systems. Symptoms appear in young children, usually before age 5. They include Ataxia - trouble coordinating movements Poor balance Slurred speech Tiny, red spider veins, called telangiectasias, on the skin and eyes Lung infections Delayed physical and sexual development People with A-T have an increased risk of developing diabetes and cancers, especially lymphoma and leukemia. Although it affects the brain, people with A-T usually have normal or high intelligence. A-T has no cure. Treatments might improve some symptoms. They include injections to strengthen the immune system, physical and speech therapy, and high-dose vitamins. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Atherosclerosis,https://medlineplus.gov/atherosclerosis.html,Atherosclerosis or arteriosclerosis is hardening and narrowing of the arteries where plaque builds up inside your arteries. Find out more.," Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Plaque is a sticky substance made up of fat, cholesterol , calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. That limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including Coronary artery disease . These arteries supply blood to your heart. When they are blocked, you can suffer angina or a heart attack. Carotid artery disease . These arteries supply blood to your brain. When they are blocked you can suffer a stroke . Peripheral arterial disease . These arteries are in your arms, legs and pelvis. When they are blocked, you can suffer from numbness, pain and sometimes infections. Atherosclerosis usually doesn't cause symptoms until it severely narrows or totally blocks an artery. Many people don't know they have it until they have a medical emergency. A physical exam, imaging, and other diagnostic tests can tell if you have it. Medicines can slow the progress of plaque buildup. Your doctor may also recommend procedures such as angioplasty to open the arteries, or surgery on the coronary or carotid arteries. Lifestyle changes can also help. These include following a healthy diet, getting regular exercise, maintaining a healthy weight, quitting smoking, and managing stress. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Athlete's Foot,https://medlineplus.gov/athletesfoot.html,"Athlete's foot (tinea pedis) is a contagious fungal infection that can affect any part of the foot, but usually begins between the toes. Learn more."," Athlete's foot is a common infection caused by a fungus. It most often affects the space between the toes. Symptoms include itching, burning, and cracked, scaly skin between your toes. You can get athlete's foot from damp surfaces, such as showers, swimming pools, and locker room floors. To prevent it Keep your feet clean, dry, and cool Wear clean socks Don't walk barefoot in public areas Wear flip-flops in locker room showers Keep your toenails clean and clipped short Treatments include over-the-counter antifungal creams for most cases and prescription medicines for more serious infections. These usually clear up the infection, but it can come back. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Atrial Fibrillation,https://medlineplus.gov/atrialfibrillation.html,Atrial fibrillation (AF or AFib) is the most common type of arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat). Read about symptoms and treatment.," An arrhythmia is a problem with the speed or rhythm of the heartbeat. Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common type of arrhythmia . The cause is a disorder in the heart's electrical system. Often, people who have AF may not even feel symptoms. But you may feel Palpitations -- an abnormal rapid heartbeat Shortness of breath Weakness or difficulty exercising Chest pain Dizziness or fainting Fatigue Confusion AF can lead to an increased risk of stroke . In many patients, it can also cause chest pain, heart attack , or heart failure . Doctors diagnose AF using family and medical history, a physical exam, and a test called an electrocardiogram (EKG), which looks at the electrical waves your heart makes. Treatments include medicines and procedures to restore normal rhythm. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/attentiondeficithyperactivitydisorder.html,Does your child have trouble paying attention? This may be a symptom of attention deficit hyperactive disorder (often called ADHD or ADD). Read more.," Is it hard for your child to sit still? Does your child act without thinking first? Does your child start but not finish things? If so, your child may have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Nearly everyone shows some of these behaviors at times, but ADHD lasts more than 6 months and causes problems in school, at home and in social situations. ADHD is more common in boys than girls. It affects 3 to 5% of all American children. The main features of ADHD are Inattention Hyperactivity Impulsivity No one knows exactly what causes ADHD. It sometimes runs in families, so genetics may be a factor. There may also be environmental factors. A complete evaluation by a trained professional is the only way to know for sure if your child has ADHD. Treatment may include medicine to control symptoms, therapy, or both. Structure at home and at school is important. Parent training may also help. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Autism Spectrum Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/autismspectrumdisorder.html,"Find out about autism spectrum disorder symptoms, causes, treatment, and other issues related to this developmental disorder. "," Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurological and developmental disorder that begins early in childhood and lasts throughout a person's life. It affects how a person acts and interacts with others, communicates, and learns. It includes what used to be known as Asperger syndrome and pervasive developmental disorders. It is called a ""spectrum"" disorder because people with ASD can have a range of symptoms. People with ASD might have problems talking with you, or they might not look you in the eye when you talk to them. They may also have restricted interests and repetitive behaviors. They may spend a lot of time putting things in order, or they may say the same sentence again and again. They may often seem to be in their ""own world."" At well-child checkups, the health care provider should check your child's development. If there are signs of ASD, your child will have a comprehensive evaluation. It may include a team of specialists, doing various tests and evaluations to make a diagnosis. The causes of ASD are not known. Research suggests that both genes and environment play important roles. There is currently no one standard treatment for ASD. There are many ways to increase your child's ability to grow and learn new skills. Starting them early can lead to better results. Treatments include behavior and communication therapies, skills training, and medicines to control symptoms. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Autoimmune Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/autoimmunediseases.html,"Autoimmune diseases are where your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Learn about the symptoms, tests, and treatments."," Your body's immune system protects you from disease and infection. But if you have an autoimmune disease, your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Autoimmune diseases can affect many parts of the body. No one is sure what causes autoimmune diseases. They do tend to run in families. Women - particularly African American, Hispanic American, and Native American women - have a higher risk for some autoimmune diseases. There are more than 80 types of autoimmune diseases, and some have similar symptoms. This makes it hard for your health care provider to know if you really have one of these diseases, and if so, which one. Getting a diagnosis can be frustrating and stressful. Often, the first symptoms are fatigue, muscle aches and a low fever. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain and swelling. The diseases may also have flare-ups, when they get worse, and remissions, when symptoms get better or disappear. Treatment depends on the disease, but in most cases one important goal is to reduce inflammation. Sometimes doctors prescribe corticosteroids or other drugs that reduce your immune response."
Autonomic Nervous System Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/autonomicnervoussystemdisorders.html,"Dysautonomia is a disorder of the autonomic nervous system, which controls functions such as breathing and heartbeat. Read more about these disorders."," Your autonomic nervous system is the part of your nervous system that controls involuntary actions, such as the beating of your heart and the widening or narrowing of your blood vessels. When something goes wrong in this system, it can cause serious problems, including Blood pressure problems Heart problems Trouble with breathing and swallowing Erectile dysfunction in men Autonomic nervous system disorders can occur alone or as the result of another disease, such as Parkinson's disease , alcoholism and diabetes. Problems can affect either part of the system, as in complex regional pain syndromes , or all of the system. Some types are temporary, but many worsen over time. When they affect your breathing or heart function, these disorders can be life-threatening. Some autonomic nervous system disorders get better when an underlying disease is treated. Often, however, there is no cure. In that case, the goal of treatment is to improve symptoms. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
B Vitamins,https://medlineplus.gov/bvitamins.html,Do you get enough B vitamins in your diet? Not enough Vitamin B12 or Vitamin B6 can cause anemia. Find out what B vitamins do for your body. ," The B vitamins are B1 (thiamine) B2 (riboflavin) B3 (niacin) B5 (pantothenic acid) B6 B7 (biotin) B12 Folic acid These vitamins help the process your body uses to get or make energy from the food you eat. They also help form red blood cells. You can get B vitamins from proteins such as fish, poultry, meat, eggs, and dairy products. Leafy green vegetables, beans, and peas also have B vitamins. Many cereals and some breads have added B vitamins. Not getting enough of certain B vitamins can cause diseases. A lack of B12 or B6 can cause anemia ."
Baby Health Checkup,https://medlineplus.gov/babyhealthcheckup.html,You care about your baby's health. Make sure you get regular checkups for your baby. ," There are many new responsibilities when you have a baby. One of them is to make sure they get the checkups that they need. Well-baby exams are important in making sure that your baby is growing and developing properly. If there are problems, you can catch them early. This means that there is a better chance for treatment. During these checkups, your baby will get any needed vaccines and screenings. This is also a good chance to ask your health care provider any questions about how to care for your baby ."
Back Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/backinjuries.html,"Back injuries can affect your range of motion. Common back injuries include sprains and strains, herniated discs and fractured vertebrae."," Your back is made of bones, muscles, and other tissues extending from your neck to your pelvis. Back injuries can result from sports injuries, work around the house or in the garden, or a sudden jolt such as a car accident. The lower back is the most common site of back injuries and back pain . Common back injuries include Sprains and strains Herniated disks Fractured (broken) vertebrae These injuries can cause pain and limit your movement. Treatments vary but might include medicines, icing, bed rest, physical therapy, or surgery. You might be able to prevent some back injuries by maintaining a healthy weight, lifting objects with your legs, and using lower-back support when you sit."
Back Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/backpain.html,Lumbago is pain on the lower part of your back. Back pain is very common. Treatment varies from medicines to surgery depending on the cause and kind of pain.," If you've ever groaned, ""Oh, my aching back!"", you are not alone. Back pain is one of the most common medical problems, affecting 8 out of 10 people at some point during their lives. Back pain can range from a dull, constant ache to a sudden, sharp pain. Acute back pain comes on suddenly and usually lasts from a few days to a few weeks. Back pain is called chronic if it lasts for more than three months. Most back pain goes away on its own, though it may take awhile. Taking over-the-counter pain relievers and resting can help. However, staying in bed for more than 1 or 2 days can make it worse. If your back pain is severe or doesn't improve after three days, you should call your health care provider. You should also get medical attention if you have back pain following an injury . Treatment for back pain depends on what kind of pain you have, and what is causing it. It may include hot or cold packs, exercise, medicines, injections, complementary treatments, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Bacterial Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/bacterialinfections.html,There are many types of bacterial infections. Learn about bacterial infections that can make you sick and how to treat them. ," Bacteria are living things that have only one cell. Under a microscope, they look like balls, rods, or spirals. They are so small that a line of 1,000 could fit across a pencil eraser. Most bacteria won't hurt you - less than 1% of the different types make people sick. Many are helpful. Some bacteria help to digest food, destroy disease-causing cells, and give the body needed vitamins. Bacteria are also used in making healthy foods like yogurt and cheese. But infectious bacteria can make you ill. They reproduce quickly in your body. Many give off chemicals called toxins, which can damage tissue and make you sick. Examples of bacteria that cause infections include Streptococcus , Staphylococcus , and E. coli . Antibiotics are the usual treatment. When you take antibiotics, follow the directions carefully. Each time you take antibiotics, you increase the chances that bacteria in your body will learn to resist them causing antibiotic resistance . Later, you could get or spread an infection that those antibiotics cannot cure. NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
Bad Breath,https://medlineplus.gov/badbreath.html,There are many reasons why you might have bad breath (also known as halitosis) including a lack of dental hygiene. Learn about how you can prevent it.," There are many reasons why you might have bad breath. You can get it if you don't brush and floss regularly. Bacteria that build up in your mouth and between your teeth produce the bad odor. Other problems in your mouth, such as gum disease , dry mouth , or cavities , may also cause it. Sinusitis or problems with your nose may be to blame. You can also have bad breath if you eat some foods, like raw onions, garlic, or cabbage. And of course smoking causes its own bad smell. Some diseases and medicines can cause a specific breath odor. Having good dental habits , like brushing and flossing regularly, help fight bad breath. Mouthwashes, mints or chewing gum may make your breath fresher. If you have a disease that causes the bad breath, treating the disease may help give you fresher breath."
Balance Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/balanceproblems.html,"Balance problems can be caused by aging, infections, head injury, medications, and other health problems. "," Have you ever felt dizzy , lightheaded, or as if the room is spinning around you? If the feeling happens often, it could be a sign of a balance problem. Balance problems can make you feel unsteady. You may also have blurred vision, confusion, and disorientation. They are one cause of falls and fall-related injuries, such as a hip fracture (broken hip). Some balance problems are due to problems in the inner ear. Others may involve another part of the body, such as the brain or the heart. Aging, infections, head injury, certain medicines, or problems with blood circulation may also cause balance problems. It is important to see your doctor about balance problems. They can be a sign of other health problems, such as an ear infection or a stroke. Your doctor may send you to a specialist for a diagnosis. You may need a hearing test, blood tests, or imaging studies of your head and brain. Other possible tests look at your eye movements, and how your body responds to movement. In some cases, treating the illness that is causing the disorder will help with the balance problem. Exercises, a change in diet, and some medicines also can help. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Barotrauma,https://medlineplus.gov/barotrauma.html,Changes in barometric or water pressure can cause injury to your body (Barotrauma). An example is how a change in altitude can make your ears hurt. ," Barotrauma means injury to your body because of changes in barometric (air) or water pressure. One common type happens to your ear . A change in altitude may cause your ears to hurt. This can happen if you are flying in an airplane, driving in the mountains, or scuba diving. Divers can also get decompression sickness, which affects the whole body. Common symptoms of ear barotrauma include Pain A feeling that your ears are stuffed Hearing loss Dizziness Treatments for ear barotrauma include chewing gum and yawning to relieve the pressure. Medications such as decongestants may also help."
Bed Bugs,https://medlineplus.gov/bedbugs.html,"Bed bugs - ugh! Also known as bedbugs, these critters bite and can make you itchy. Discover how to get rid of them, how to treat bites, and more."," Bed bugs bite you and feed on your blood. You may have no reaction to the bites, or you may have small marks or itching. Severe allergic reactions are rare. Bed bugs don't transmit or spread diseases. Adult bed bugs are brown, 1/4 to 3/8 inch long, and have a flat, oval-shaped body. Young bed bugs (called nymphs) are smaller and lighter in color. Bed bugs hide in a variety of places around the bed. They might also hide in the seams of chairs and couches, between cushions, and in the folds of curtains. They come out to feed about every five to ten days. But they can survive over a year without feeding. To prevent bed bugs in your home: Check secondhand furniture for any signs of bed bugs before bringing it home Use a protective cover that encases mattresses and box springs. Check it regularly for holes. Reduce clutter in your home so they have fewer places to hide Unpack directly into your washing machine after a trip and check your luggage carefully. When staying in hotels, put your suitcases on luggage racks instead of the floor. Check the mattress and headboard for signs of bed bugs. To get rid of bed bugs: Wash and dry bedding and clothing at high temperatures Use mattress, box spring, and pillow encasements to trap bed bugs and help detect infestations Use pesticides if needed Environmental Protection Agency"
Behcet's Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/behcetssyndrome.html,Behcets syndrome (or disease) causes inflammation of the blood vessels and symptoms in many parts of the body. Learn about diagnosis and treatment.," Behcet's syndrome is a disease that involves vasculitis , which is inflammation of the blood vessels. It causes problems in many parts of the body. The most common symptoms are Sores in the mouth Sores on the sex organs Other skin sores Swelling of parts of the eye Pain, swelling and stiffness of the joints More serious problems can include meningitis, blood clots, inflammation of the digestive system and blindness. Doctors aren't sure what causes Behcet's. It is rare in the United States, but is common in the Middle East and Asia. It mainly affects people in their 20s and 30s. Diagnosing Behcet's can take a long time, because symptoms may come and go, and it may take months or even years to have all of the symptoms. There is no cure. Treatment focuses on reducing pain and preventing serious problems. Most people can control symptoms with treatment. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Bell's Palsy,https://medlineplus.gov/bellspalsy.html,Bell's palsy is the most common cause of facial paralysis. Symptoms appear suddenly and can range from mild to severe. Find out if you are at risk. ," Bell's palsy is the most common cause of facial paralysis. It usually affects just one side of the face. Symptoms appear suddenly and are at their worst about 48 hours after they start. They can range from mild to severe and include Twitching Weakness Paralysis Drooping eyelid or corner of mouth Drooling Dry eye or mouth Excessive tearing in the eye Impaired ability to taste Scientists think that a viral infection makes the facial nerve swell or become inflamed. You are most likely to get Bell's palsy if you are pregnant, diabetic or sick with a cold or flu. Three out of four patients improve without treatment. With or without treatment, most people begin to get better within 2 weeks and recover completely within 3 to 6 months. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Benefits of Exercise,https://medlineplus.gov/benefitsofexercise.html,"Regular exercise is one of the best things you can do for your health. Learn about all of the benefits, plus tips on adding exercise to your routine."," We have all heard it many times before - regular exercise is good for you, and it can help you lose weight. But if you are like many Americans, you are busy, you have a sedentary job, and you haven't yet changed your exercise habits. The good news is that it's never too late to start. You can start slowly, and find ways to fit more physical activity into your life. To get the most benefit, you should try to get the recommended amount of exercise for your age. If you can do it, the payoff is that you will feel better, help prevent or control many diseases, and likely even live longer. What are the health benefits of exercise? Regular exercise and physical activity may Help you control your weight. Along with diet, exercise plays an important role in controlling your weight and preventing obesity . To maintain your weight, the calories you eat and drink must equal the energy you burn. To lose weight, you must use more calories than you eat and drink. Reduce your risk of heart diseases. Exercise strengthens your heart and improves your circulation. The increased blood flow raises the oxygen levels in your body. This helps lower your risk of heart diseases such as high cholesterol , coronary artery disease , and heart attack . Regular exercise can also lower your blood pressure and triglyceride levels. Help your body manage blood sugar and insulin levels. Exercise can lower your blood sugar level and help your insulin work better. This can cut down your risk for metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes . And if you already have one of those diseases, exercise can help you to manage it. Help you quit smoking. Exercise may make it easier to quit smoking by reducing your cravings and withdrawal symptoms. It can also help limit the weight you might gain when you stop smoking. Improve your mental health and mood. During exercise, your body releases chemicals that can improve your mood and make you feel more relaxed. This can help you deal with stress and reduce your risk of depression . Help keep your thinking, learning, and judgment skills sharp as you age. Exercise stimulates your body to release proteins and other chemicals that improve the structure and function of your brain. Strengthen your bones and muscles. Regular exercise can help kids and teens build strong bones. Later in life, it can also slow the loss of bone density that comes with age. Doing muscle-strengthening activities can help you increase or maintain your muscle mass and strength. Reduce your risk of some cancers, including colon , breast , uterine , and lung cancer. Reduce your risk of falls. For older adults, research shows that doing balance and muscle-strengthening activities in addition to moderate-intensity aerobic activity can help reduce your risk of falling. Improve your sleep. Exercise can help you to fall asleep faster and stay asleep longer. Improve your sexual health. Regular exercise may lower the risk of erectile dysfunction (ED) in men. For those who already have ED, exercise may help improve their sexual function. In women, exercise may increase sexual arousal. Increase your chances of living longer. Studies show that physical activity can reduce your risk of dying early from the leading causes of death, like heart disease and some cancers. How can I make exercise a part of my regular routine? Make everyday activities more active. Even small changes can help. You can take the stairs instead of the elevator. Walk down the hall to a coworker's office instead of sending an email. Wash the car yourself. Park further away from your destination. Be active with friends and family. Having a workout partner may make you more likely to enjoy exercise. You can also plan social activities that involve exercise. You might also consider joining an exercise group or class, such as a dance class, hiking club, or volleyball team. Keep track of your progress. Keeping a log of your activity or using a fitness tracker may help you set goals and stay motivated. Make exercise more fun. Try listening to music or watching TV while you exercise. Also, mix things up a little bit - if you stick with just one type of exercise, you might get bored. Try doing a combination of activities. Find activities that you can do even when the weather is bad. You can walk in a mall, climb stairs, or work out in a gym even if the weather stops you from exercising outside."
Benign Tumors,https://medlineplus.gov/benigntumors.html,You may be relieved when your doctor tells you a tumor is benign. But they may need to be removed. Find out more about benign tumors.," Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain. Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor. Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Bereavement,https://medlineplus.gov/bereavement.html,Losing someone you love is difficult. Everyone grieves differently. Get support for bereavement and learn more.  ," Bereavement is the period of grief and mourning after a death. When you grieve, it's part of the normal process of reacting to a loss. You may experience grief as a mental, physical, social or emotional reaction. Mental reactions can include anger, guilt, anxiety, sadness and despair. Physical reactions can include sleeping problems, changes in appetite, physical problems or illness. How long bereavement lasts can depend on how close you were to the person who died, if the person's death was expected and other factors. Friends, family and faith may be sources of support. Grief counseling or grief therapy is also helpful to some people. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Bile Duct Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/bileductcancer.html,"Bile duct cancer can be caused by liver diseases or colitis. Learn about bile duct cancer tests, diagnosis, treatment, and survival rates. "," Your liver makes a digestive juice called bile. Your gallbladder stores it between meals. When you eat, your gallbladder pushes the bile into tubes called bile ducts . They carry the bile to your small intestine. The bile helps break down fat. It also helps the liver get rid of toxins and wastes. Bile duct cancer is rare. It can happen in the parts of the bile ducts that are outside or inside the liver. Cancer of the bile duct outside of the liver is much more common. Risk factors include having inflammation of the bile duct, ulcerative colitis , and some liver diseases. Symptoms can include Jaundice Itchy skin Fever Abdominal pain Tests to diagnose bile duct cancer may include a physical exam, imaging tests of the liver and bile ducts, blood tests, and a biopsy. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Bile Duct Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/bileductdiseases.html,"Infections, gallstones, and cancer can result in bile duct problems. Discover the types, causes, symptoms, and treatment of bile duct diseases. "," Your liver makes a digestive juice called bile. Your gallbladder stores it between meals. When you eat, your gallbladder pushes the bile into tubes called bile ducts. They carry the bile to your small intestine. The bile helps break down fat. It also helps the liver get rid of toxins and wastes. Different diseases can block the bile ducts and cause a problem with the flow of bile: Gallstones , which can increase pressure in the gallbladder and cause a gallbladder attack. The pain usually lasts from one to several hours. Cancer Infections Birth defects, such as biliary atresia. It is the most common reason for liver transplants in children in the United States. Inflammation, which can cause scarring. Over time, this can lead to liver failure. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Biodefense and Bioterrorism,https://medlineplus.gov/biodefenseandbioterrorism.html,Learn about and prepare for bioterrorism.  Biodefense  includes vaccines and other methods to protect against bioterrorism. ," A bioterrorism attack is the deliberate release of viruses, bacteria, or other germs to cause illness or death. These germs are often found in nature. But they can sometimes be made more harmful by increasing their ability to cause disease, spread, or resist medical treatment. Biological agents spread through the air, water, or in food. Some can also spread from person to person. They can be very hard to detect. They don't cause illness for several hours or days. Scientists worry that anthrax , botulism , Ebola and other hemorrhagic fever viruses, plague , or smallpox could be used as biological agents. Biodefense uses medical measures to protect people against bioterrorism. This includes medicines and vaccinations. It also includes medical research and preparations to defend against bioterrorist attacks. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Biopsy,https://medlineplus.gov/biopsy.html,"If your doctor suspects you may have cancer or another disease, she may order a biopsy for you. Learn about the types of biopsies and more."," A biopsy is a procedure that removes cells or tissue from your body. A doctor called a pathologist looks at the cells or tissue under a microscope to check for damage or disease. The pathologist may also do other tests on it. Biopsies can be done on all parts of the body. In most cases, a biopsy is the only test that can tell for sure if a suspicious area is cancer. But biopsies are performed for many other reasons too. There are different types of biopsies. A needle biopsy removes tissue with a needle passed through your skin to the site of the problem. Other kinds of biopsies may require surgery."
Bipolar Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/bipolardisorder.html,"Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder that can cause intense mood swings. It's also called manic depression. Learn about the types, symptoms, treatment, and more."," What is bipolar disorder? Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder that can cause intense mood swings: Sometimes you may feel extremely ""up,"" elated, irritable, or energized. This is called a manic episode . Other times you may feel ""down,"" sad, indifferent, or hopeless. This is called a depressive episode . You may have both manic and depressive symptoms together. This is called a mixed episode . Along with the mood swings, bipolar disorder causes changes in behavior, energy levels, and activity levels. Bipolar disorder used to be called other names, including manic depression and manic-depressive disorder. What are the types of bipolar disorder? There are three main types of bipolar disorder: Bipolar I disorder involves manic episodes that last at least 7 days or manic symptoms so severe that you need immediate hospital care. Depressive episodes are also common. Those often last at least two weeks. This type of bipolar disorder can also involve mixed episodes. Bipolar II disorder involves depressive episodes. But instead of full-blown manic episodes, there are episodes of hypomania. Hypomania is a less severe version of mania. Cyclothymic disorder , or cyclothymia, also involves hypomanic and depressive symptoms. But they are not as intense or as long-lasting as hypomanic or depressive episodes. The symptoms usually last for at least two years in adults and for one year in children and teenagers. With any of these types, having four or more episodes of mania or depression in a year is called ""rapid cycling."" What causes bipolar disorder? The exact cause of bipolar disorder is unknown. Several factors likely play a role in the disorder. They include genetics , brain structure and function, and your environment. Who is at risk for bipolar disorder? You are at higher risk for bipolar disorder if you have a close relative who has it. Going through trauma or stressful life events may raise this risk even more. What are the symptoms of bipolar disorder? The symptoms of bipolar disorder can vary. But they involve mood swings known as mood episodes: The symptoms of a manic episode can include Feeling very up, high, or elated Feeling jumpy or wired, more active than usual Having a very short temper or seeming extremely irritable Having racing thoughts and talking very fast Needing less sleep Feeling like you are unusually important, talented, or powerful Do risky things that show poor judgment, such as eating and drinking too much, spending or giving away a lot of money, or having reckless sex The symptoms of a depressive episode can include Feeling very sad, hopeless, or worthless Feeling lonely or isolating yourself from others Talking very slowly, feeling like you have nothing to say, or forgetting a lot Having little energy Sleeping too much Eating too much or too little Lack of interest in your usual activities and being unable to do even simple things Thinking about death or suicide The symptoms of a mixed episode include both manic and depressive symptoms together. For example, you may feel very sad, empty, or hopeless, while at the same time feeling extremely energized. Some people with bipolar disorder may have milder symptoms. For example, you may have hypomania instead of mania. With hypomania, you may feel very good and find that you can get a lot done. You may not feel like anything is wrong. But your family and friends may notice your mood swings and changes in activity levels. They may realize that your behavior is unusual for you. After the hypomania, you might have severe depression. Your mood episodes may last a week or two or sometimes longer. During an episode, symptoms usually occur every day for most of the day. How is bipolar disorder diagnosed? To diagnose bipolar disorder, your health care provider may use many tools: A physical exam A medical history, which will include asking about your symptoms, lifetime history, experiences, and family history Medical tests to rule out other conditions A mental health evaluation. Your provider may do the evaluation or may refer you to a mental health specialist to get one. What are the treatments for bipolar disorder? Treatment can help many people, including those with the most severe forms of bipolar disorder. The main treatments for bipolar disorder include medicines, psychotherapy, or both: Medicines can help control the symptoms of bipolar disorder. You may need to try several different medicines to find which one works best for you. Some people need to take more than one medicine. It's important to take your medicine consistently. Don't stop taking it without first talking with your provider. Contact your provider if you have any concerns about side effects from the medicines. Psychotherapy (talk therapy) can help you recognize and change troubling emotions, thoughts, and behaviors. It can give you and your family support, education, skills, and coping strategies. There are several different types of psychotherapy that may help with bipolar disorder. Other treatment options include Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), a brain stimulation procedure that can help relieve symptoms. ECT is most often used for severe bipolar disorder that is not getting better with other treatments. It may also be used when someone needs a treatment that will work more quickly than medicines. This might be when a person has a high risk of suicide or is catatonic (unresponsive). Getting regular aerobic exercise may help with depression , anxiety , and trouble sleeping Keeping a life chart can help you and your provider track and treat your bipolar disorder. A life chart is a record of your daily mood symptoms, treatments, sleep patterns, and life events. Bipolar disorder is a lifelong illness. But long-term, ongoing treatment can help manage your symptoms and enable you to live a healthy, successful life. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Bird Flu,https://medlineplus.gov/birdflu.html,"The bird flu (also known as influenza A or the avian flu) primarily infects birds, but can pose health risks to people. Learn how to avoid this flu."," Birds, just like people, get the flu. Bird flu viruses infect birds, including chickens, other poultry, and wild birds such as ducks. Usually bird flu viruses only infect other birds. It is rare for people to get infected with bird flu viruses, but it can happen. Two types, H5N1 and H7N9, have infected some people during outbreaks in Asia, Africa, the Pacific, the Middle East, and parts of Europe. There have also been some rare cases of other types of bird flu affecting people in the United States. Most of the people who get bird flu have had close contact with infected birds or with surfaces that have been contaminated by the birds' saliva, mucous, or droppings. It is also possible to get it by breathing in droplets or dust that contain the virus. Rarely, the virus has spread from one person to another. It may also be possible to catch bird flu by eating poultry or eggs that are not well cooked. Bird flu illness in people can range from mild to severe. Often, the symptoms are similar to the seasonal flu , such as Fever Cough Sore throat Runny or stuffy nose Muscle or body aches Fatigue Headaches Eye redness (or conjunctivitis ) Difficulty breathing In some cases, bird flu can cause serious complications and death. As with seasonal flu, some people are at higher risk for serious illness. They include pregnant women, people with weakened immune systems, and adults 65 and older. Treatment with antiviral medicines may make the illness less severe. They may also help prevent the flu in people who were exposed to it. There is currently no vaccine available to the public. The government does have a supply of a vaccine for one type of H5N1 bird flu virus and could distribute it if there was an outbreak that spread easily from person to person. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Birth Control,https://medlineplus.gov/birthcontrol.html,"Birth control, or contraception, is designed to prevent pregnancy. Read about the different options, and their risks and benefits."," Birth control, also known as contraception, is designed to prevent pregnancy. Birth control methods may work in a number of different ways: Preventing sperm from getting to the eggs. Types include condoms, diaphragms, cervical caps, and contraceptive sponges. Keeping the woman's ovaries from releasing eggs that could be fertilized. Types include birth control pills, patches, shots, vaginal rings, and emergency contraceptive pills. IUDs, devices which are implanted into the uterus. They can be kept in place for several years. Sterilization, which permanently prevents a woman from getting pregnant or a man from being able to get a woman pregnant Your choice of birth control should depend on several factors. These include your health, frequency of sexual activity, number of sexual partners and desire to have children in the future. Your health care provider can help you select the best form of birth control for you. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Birth Defects,https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html,"A birth defect is a problem that happens while a baby is developing in the mother's body.  Learn about the different types of birth defects, their treatments, and how some kinds can be prevented."," What are birth defects? A birth defect is a problem that happens while a baby is developing in the mother's body. Most birth defects happen during the first 3 months of pregnancy. One out of every 33 babies in the United States is born with a birth defect. A birth defect may affect how the body looks, works, or both. Some birth defects like cleft lip or neural tube defects are structural problems that can be easy to see. Others, like heart disease , are found using special tests. Birth defects can range from mild to severe. How a birth defect affects a child's life depends mostly on which organ or body part is involved and how severe the defect is. What causes birth defects? For some birth defects, researchers know the cause. But for many birth defects, the exact cause is unknown. Researchers think that most birth defects are caused by a complex mix of factors, which can include Genetics. One or more genes might have a change or mutation that prevents them from working properly. For example, this happens in Fragile X syndrome . With some defects, a gene or part of the gene might be missing. Chromosomal problems. In some cases, a chromosome or part of a chromosome might be missing. This is what happens in Turner syndrome . In other cases, such as with Down syndrome , the child has an extra chromosome. Exposures to medicines , chemicals, or other toxic substances . For example, alcohol misuse can cause fetal alcohol spectrum disorders . Infections during pregnancy . For example, infection with Zika virus during pregnancy can cause a serious defect in the brain . Lack of certain nutrients. Not getting enough folic acid before and during pregnancy is a key factor in causing neural tube defects. Who is at risk of having a baby with birth defects? Certain factors may might increase the chances of having a baby with a birth defect, such as Smoking, drinking alcohol, or taking certain ""street"" drugs during pregnancy Having certain medical conditions, such as obesity or uncontrolled diabetes , before and during pregnancy Taking certain medicines Having someone in your family with a birth defect. To learn more about your risk of having a baby with a birth defect, you can talk with a genetic counselor , Being an older mother, typically over the age of 34 years How are birth defects diagnosed? Health care providers can diagnose some birth defects during pregnancy, using prenatal testing . That's why it important to get regular prenatal care . Other birth defects may not be found until after the baby is born. Providers may find them through newborn screening . Some defects, such as club foot, are obvious right away. Other times, the health care provider may not discover a defect until later in life, when the child has symptoms. What are the treatments for birth defects? Children with birth defects often need special care and treatments. Because the symptoms and problems caused by birth defects vary, the treatments also vary. Possible treatments may include surgery, medicines, assistive devices , physical therapy, and speech therapy. Often, children with birth defects need a variety of services and may need to see several specialists. The primary health care provider can coordinate the special care that the child needs. Can birth defects be prevented? Not all birth defects can be prevented. But there are things you can do before and during pregnancy to increase your chance of having a healthy baby: Start prenatal care as soon as you think you might be pregnant, and see your health care provider regularly during pregnancy Get 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid every day. If possible, you should start taking it at least one month before you get pregnant. Don't drink alcohol, smoke, or use ""street"" drugs Talk to your health care provider about any medicines you are taking or thinking about taking. This includes prescription and over-the-counter medicines, as well as dietary or herbal supplements. Learn how to prevent infections during pregnancy If you have any medical conditions, try to get them under control before you get pregnant Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Birth Weight,https://medlineplus.gov/birthweight.html,Newborn babies vary in birth weight and size. Some low birth babies may have health issues. Get the facts on your baby's birth weight.," Birth weight is the first weight of your baby, taken just after he or she is born. A low birth weight is less than 5.5 pounds. A high birth weight is more than 8.8 pounds. A low birth weight baby can be born too small, too early ( premature ), or both. This can happen for many different reasons. They include health problems in the mother , genetic factors, problems with the placenta, and drug use by the mother . Some low birth weight babies may be more at risk for certain health problems. Some may become sick in the first days of life or develop infections. Others may suffer from longer-term problems such as delayed motor and social development or learning disabilities. High birth weight babies are often big because the parents are big, or the mother has diabetes during pregnancy. These babies may be at a higher risk of birth injuries and problems with blood sugar. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Birthmarks,https://medlineplus.gov/birthmarks.html,"Birthmarks can be two main types: vascular, such as hemangiomas and port wine stains or pigmented, such as a mole or Mongolian spot. Find out more."," Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. Pigmented birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. Moles can be birthmarks. No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider."
Black and African American Health,https://medlineplus.gov/blackandafricanamericanhealth.html,Black and African American health disparities and access to healthcare are among the issues concerning the health of Blacks and African Americans. Learn more.," Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from Genetics Environmental factors Access to care Cultural factors On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Black and African Americans."
Bladder Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/bladdercancer.html,Bladder cancer symptoms range from lower back pain to blood in your urine. Read about important risk factors and find a list of treatments available," The bladder is a hollow organ in your lower abdomen that stores urine. Bladder cancer occurs in the lining of the bladder. It is the sixth most common type of cancer in the United States. Symptoms include Blood in your urine A frequent urge to urinate Pain when you urinate Low back pain Risk factors for developing bladder cancer include smoking and exposure to certain chemicals in the workplace. People with a family history of bladder cancer or who are older, white, or male have a higher risk. Treatments for bladder cancer include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and biologic therapy. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Bladder Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/bladderdiseases.html,Many conditions can affect your bladder and put you at risk for bladder diseases. Read about some of the common bladder pains which includes Cystitis," The bladder is a hollow organ in your lower abdomen that stores urine. Many conditions can affect your bladder. Some common ones are Cystitis - inflammation of the bladder, often from an infection Urinary incontinence - loss of bladder control Overactive bladder - a condition in which the bladder squeezes urine out at the wrong time Interstitial cystitis - a chronic problem that causes bladder pain and frequent, urgent urination Bladder cancer Doctors diagnose bladder diseases using different tests. These include urine tests , x-rays, and an examination of the bladder wall with a scope called a cystoscope. Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. It may include medicines and, in severe cases, surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Bleeding,https://medlineplus.gov/bleeding.html,"Bleeding is the loss of blood, inside or outside the body. A hemorrhage is severe bleeding. Learn about the causes of bleeding and how to treat it."," Bleeding is the loss of blood . It can be external, or outside the body, like when you get a cut or wound . It can also be internal, or inside the body, like when you have an injury to an internal organ. Some bleeding, such as gastrointestinal bleeding , coughing up blood, or vaginal bleeding , can be a symptom of a disease. Normally, when you are injured and start bleeding, a blood clot forms to stop the bleeding quickly. Afterwards, the clot dissolves naturally. To be able to make a clot, your blood needs blood proteins called clotting factors and a type of blood cell called platelets . Some people have a problem with clotting, due to another medical condition or an inherited disease. There are two types of problems: Your blood may not form clots normally, known as a bleeding disorder . This happens when your body does not make enough platelets or clotting factors, or they don't work the way they should. Your blood may make too many clots, or the clots may not dissolve properly Sometimes bleeding can cause other problems. A bruise is bleeding under the skin. Some strokes are caused by bleeding in the brain. Severe bleeding may require first aid or a trip to the emergency room ."
Bleeding Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/bleedingdisorders.html,"With bleeding disorders, there is a problem with blood clotting. It may be hard to stop the bleeding. Read about bleeding disorders and treatments."," Normally, if you get hurt, your body forms a blood clot to stop the bleeding . For blood to clot, your body needs cells called platelets and proteins known as clotting factors. If you have a bleeding disorder, you either do not have enough platelets or clotting factors or they don't work the way they should. Bleeding disorders can be the result of other diseases, such as severe liver disease or a lack of vitamin K . They can also be inherited. Hemophilia is an inherited bleeding disorder. Bleeding disorders can also be a side effect of medicines such as blood thinners . Various blood tests can check for a bleeding disorder. You will also have a physical exam and history. Treatments depend on the cause. They may include medicines and transfusions of blood , platelets, or clotting factor."
Blisters,https://medlineplus.gov/blisters.html,"Blisters are fluid-filled sacs on the outer layer of your skin. They form because of rubbing, heat, or skin diseases. Learn about how to prevent them."," What are blisters? Blisters are fluid-filled sacs on the outer layer of your skin. They form because of rubbing, heat, or diseases of the skin. They are most common on your hands and feet. Other names for blisters are vesicles (usually for smaller blisters) and bulla (for larger blisters). What causes blisters? Blisters often happen when there is friction - rubbing or pressure - on one spot. For example, if your shoes don't fit quite right and they keep rubbing part of your foot. Or if you don't wear gloves when you rake leaves and the handle keeps rubbing against your hand. Other causes of blisters include Burns Sunburn Frostbite Eczema Allergic reactions Poison ivy, oak, and sumac Autoimmune diseases such as pemphigus Epidermolysis bullosa, an illness that causes the skin to be fragile Viral infections such as varicella zoster (which causes chickenpox and shingles ) and herpes simplex (which causes cold sores ) Skin infections including impetigo What are the treatments for blisters? Blisters will usually heal on their own. The skin over the blister helps keep out infections. You can put a bandage on the blister to keep it clean. Make sure that there is no more rubbing or friction on the blister. You should contact your health care provider if The blister looks infected - if it is draining pus, or the area around the blister is red, swollen, warm, or very painful You have a fever You have several blisters, especially if you cannot figure out what is causing them You have health problems such as circulation problems or diabetes Normally you don't want to drain a blister, because of the risk of infection. But if a blister is large, painful, or looks like it will pop on its own, you can drain the fluid. Can blisters be prevented? There are some things you can do to prevent friction blisters: Make sure that your shoes fit properly Always wear socks with your shoes, and make sure that the socks fit well. You may want to wear socks that are acrylic or nylon, so they keep moisture away from your feet. Wear gloves or protective gear on your hands when you use any tools or sports equipment that cause friction."
Blood,https://medlineplus.gov/blood.html,Blood has many functions in your body. Blood tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. Learn about blood types and blood tests.," Your blood is made up of liquid and solids. The liquid part, called plasma, is made of water, salts, and protein. Over half of your blood is plasma. The solid part of your blood contains red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Red blood cells (RBC) deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs. White blood cells (WBC) fight infection and are part of your immune system. Platelets help blood to clot when you have a cut or wound. Bone marrow, the spongy material inside your bones, makes new blood cells. Blood cells constantly die and your body makes new ones. Red blood cells live about 120 days, and platelets live about 6 days. Some white blood cells live less than a day, but others live much longer. There are four blood types: A, B, AB, or O. Also, blood is either Rh-positive or Rh-negative. So if you have type A blood, it's either A positive or A negative. Which type you are is important if you need a blood transfusion . And your Rh factor could be important if you become pregnant - an incompatibility between your type and the baby's could create problems. Blood tests such as blood count tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. They also help check the function of your organs and show how well treatments are working. Problems with your blood may include bleeding disorders , excessive clotting and platelet disorders . If you lose too much blood, you may need a transfusion. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Blood Clots,https://medlineplus.gov/bloodclots.html,Your blood forms clots to stop bleeding. Some people get too many clots or their blood clots abnormally. Learn about the causes and treatments.," What is a blood clot? A blood clot is mass of blood that forms when platelets , proteins, and cells in the blood stick together. When you get hurt, your body forms a blood clot to stop the bleeding . After the bleeding stops and healing takes place, your body usually breaks down and removes the blood clot. But sometimes the blood clots form where they shouldn't, your body makes too many blood clots or abnormal blood clots, or the blood clots don't break down like they should. These blood clots can be dangerous and may cause other health problems. Blood clots can form in, or travel to, the blood vessels in the limbs, lungs, brain, heart, and kidneys. The types of problems blood clots can cause will depend on where they are: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the lower leg, thigh, or pelvis. It can block a vein and cause damage to your leg. A pulmonary embolism can happen when a DVT breaks off and travels through the bloodstream to the lungs. It can damage your lungs and prevent your other organs from getting enough oxygen. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is a rare blood clot in the venous sinuses in your brain. Normally the venous sinuses drain blood from your brain. CVST blocks the blood from draining and can cause a hemorrhagic stroke . Blood clots in other parts of the body can cause problems such as an ischemic stroke , a heart attack , kidney problems , kidney failure , and pregnancy-related problems . Who is at risk for blood clots? Certain factors can raise the risk of blood clots: Atherosclerosis Atrial fibrillation Cancer and cancer treatments Certain genetic disorders Certain surgeries COVID-19 Diabetes Family history of blood clots Overweight and obesity Pregnancy and giving birth Serious injuries Some medicines, including birth control pills Smoking Staying in one position for a long time, such as being in the hospital or taking a long car or plane ride What are the symptoms of blood clots? The symptoms for blood clots can be different, depending on where the blood clot is: In the abdomen: Abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting In an arm or leg: Sudden or gradual pain, swelling, tenderness, and warmth In the lungs: Shortness of breath, pain with deep breathing, rapid breathing, and increased heart rate In the brain: Trouble speaking , vision problems , seizures , weakness on one side of the body, and sudden severe headache In the heart: Chest pain , sweating, shortness of breath, and pain in the left arm How are blood clots diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose blood clots: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, including a D-dimer test Imaging tests , such as Ultrasound X-rays of the veins (venography) or blood vessels (angiography) that are taken after you get an injection of special dye. The dye shows up on the x-ray and allows the provider to see how the blood flows. CT Scan What are the treatments for blood clots? Treatments for blood clots depend on where the blood clot is located and how severe it is. Treatments may include Blood thinners Other medicines, including thrombolytics. Thrombolytics are medicines which dissolve blood clots. They are usually used where the blood clots are severe. Surgery and other procedures to remove the blood clots Can blood clots be prevented? You may be able to help prevent blood clots by Moving around as soon as possible after having been confined to your bed, such as after surgery, illness, or injury Getting up and moving around every few hours when you have to sit for long periods of time, for example if you are on a long flight or car trip Regular physical activity Not smoking Staying at a healthy weight Some people at high risk may need to take blood thinners to prevent blood clots."
Blood Count Tests,https://medlineplus.gov/bloodcounttests.html,"Blood count tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. Learn about blood count tests, like the complete blood count (CBC)."," Your blood contains red blood cells (RBC), white blood cells (WBC), and platelets. Blood count tests measure the number and types of cells in your blood. This helps doctors check on your overall health. The tests can also help to diagnose diseases and conditions such as anemia , infections, clotting problems, blood cancers, and immune system disorders . Specific types include tests for RBC - the numbers, size, and types of RBC in the blood WBC - the numbers and types of WBC in the blood Platelets - the numbers and size of the platelets Hemoglobin - an iron-rich protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen Hematocrit - how much space red blood cells take up in your blood Reticulocyte count - how many young red blood cells are in your blood Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) - the average size of your red blood cells The complete blood count (CBC) includes most or all of these. The CBC is one of the most common blood tests. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Blood Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/blooddisorders.html,"Blood disorders affect one or more parts of the blood and prevent your blood from doing its job. Find out about the types, causes, and treatments."," Your blood is living tissue made up of liquid and solids. The liquid part, called plasma, is made of water, salts and protein. Over half of your blood is plasma. The solid part of your blood contains red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. Blood disorders affect one or more parts of the blood and prevent your blood from doing its job. They can be acute or chronic. Many blood disorders are inherited. Other causes include other diseases, side effects of medicines, and a lack of certain nutrients in your diet. Types of blood disorders include Platelet disorders , excessive clotting , and bleeding problems , which affect how your blood clots Anemia , which happens when your blood does not carry enough oxygen to the rest of your body Cancers of the blood, such as leukemia and myeloma Eosinophilic disorders , which are problems with one type of white blood cell."
Blood Pressure Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/bloodpressuremedicines.html,One in three adults in the US have high blood pressure. Blood pressure medicines and life style changes can help lower blood pressure. Learn more.," High blood pressure , also called hypertension, usually has no symptoms. But it can cause serious problems such as stroke , heart failure , heart attack and kidney failure . If you cannot control your high blood pressure through lifestyle changes such as losing weight and reducing sodium in your diet, you may need medicines. Blood pressure medicines work in different ways to lower blood pressure. Some remove extra fluid and salt from the body. Others slow down the heartbeat or relax and widen blood vessels. Often, two or more medicines work better than one. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Blood Sugar,https://medlineplus.gov/bloodsugar.html,Your body processes the food you eat into glucose. Your blood carries glucose (blood sugar) to all of your body's cells to use for energy. Learn more.," Blood sugar, or glucose, is the main sugar found in your blood. It comes from the food you eat, and is your body's main source of energy. Your blood carries glucose to all of your body's cells to use for energy. Diabetes is a disease in which your blood sugar levels are too high. Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause serious problems . Even if you don't have diabetes, sometimes you may have problems with blood sugar that is too low or too high . Keeping a regular schedule of eating, activity, and taking any medicines you need can help. If you do have diabetes, it is very important to keep your blood sugar numbers in your target range. You may need to check your blood sugar several times each day. Your health care provider will also do a blood test called an A1C . It checks your average blood sugar level over the past three months. If your blood sugar is too high, you may need to take medicines and/or follow a special diet . NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Blood Thinners,https://medlineplus.gov/bloodthinners.html,Anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs are blood thinners. They reduce risk of heart attacks and help keep blood clots from forming. Learn more.," Blood thinners are medicines that prevent blood clots from forming. They also keep existing blood clots from getting larger. Clots in your arteries, veins, and heart can cause heart attacks , strokes , and blockages. You may take a blood thinner if you have Certain heart or blood vessel diseases An abnormal heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation A heart valve replacement A risk of blood clots after surgery Congenital heart defects There are two main types of blood thinners. Anticoagulants such as heparin or warfarin (also called Coumadin) slow down your body's process of making clots. Antiplatelet drugs, such as aspirin, prevent blood cells called platelets from clumping together to form a clot. When you take a blood thinner, follow directions carefully. Blood thinners may interact with certain foods, medicines, vitamins, and alcohol. Make sure that your health care provider knows all of the medicines and supplements you are using. You will probably need regular blood tests to check how well your blood is clotting. It is important to make sure that you're taking enough medicine to prevent clots, but not so much that it causes bleeding."
Blood Transfusion and Donation,https://medlineplus.gov/bloodtransfusionanddonation.html,"Get information on blooddonation, the blooddonationprocess, andblood transfusion."," Every year, millions of people in the United States receive life-saving blood transfusions. During a transfusion, you receive whole blood or parts of blood such as Red blood cells - cells that carry oxygen to and from tissues and organs Platelets - cells that form clots to control bleeding Plasma - the liquid part of the blood that helps clotting. You may need it if you have been badly burned, have liver failure or a severe infection. Most blood transfusions go very smoothly. Some infectious agents, such as HIV, can survive in blood and infect the person receiving the blood transfusion. To keep blood safe, blood banks carefully screen donated blood. The risk of catching a virus from a blood transfusion is low. Sometimes it is possible to have a transfusion of your own blood. During surgery, you may need a blood transfusion because of blood loss. If you are having a surgery that you're able to schedule months in advance, your doctor may ask whether you would like to use your own blood, instead of donated blood. If so, you will need to have blood drawn one or more times before the surgery. A blood bank will store your blood for your use. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Body Lice,https://medlineplus.gov/bodylice.html,Body lice are parasitic insects. They spread through physical contact with a person who has body lice or though contact with their clothing. They are most common in homeless people. Find out how to kn," What are body lice? Body lice (also called clothes lice) are tiny insects which live and lay nits (lice eggs) on clothing. They are parasites, and they need to feed on human blood to survive. They usually only move to the skin to feed. Body lice are one of the three types of lice that live on humans. The other two types are head lice and pubic lice . Each type of lice is different, and getting one type does not mean that you will get another type. Body lice can spread diseases, such as typhus, trench fever, and relapsing fever. How do body lice spread? Body lice move by crawling, because they cannot hop or fly. One way that they spread is through physical contact with a person who has body lice. They can also spread through contact with clothing, beds, bed linens, or towels that were used by a person with body lice. You cannot get lice from animals. Who is at risk for body lice? Body lice is most common in people who cannot bathe and wash their clothes regularly, especially if they live in crowded conditions. In the United States, this is most often homeless people . In other countries, body lice can also affect refugees and victims of war or natural disasters. What are the symptoms of body lice? The most common symptom of body lice is intense itching . There may also be a rash, which is caused by an allergic reaction to the bites. The itching causes some people to scratch until they get sores. Sometimes these sores can become infected with bacteria or fungi . If someone has body lice for a long time, the heavily bitten areas of their skin can become thickened and discolored. This is most common around your midsection (waist, groin, and upper thighs). How do you know if you have body lice? A diagnosis of body lice usually comes from finding nits and crawling lice in the seams of clothing. Sometimes a body louse can be seen crawling or feeding on the skin. Other times it takes a magnifying lens to see the lice or nits. What are the treatments for body lice? The main treatment for body lice is to improve personal hygiene. That means regular showers and washing clothes, bedding, and towels at least once a week. Use hot water to wash the laundry, and dry it using the hot cycle of the dryer. Some people may also need a lice-killing medicine. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Body Weight,https://medlineplus.gov/bodyweight.html,Do you know what the ideal body weight is for your gender and height? Find information and tools to help you learn more about your body weight. ," Do you know if your current weight is healthy? ""Underweight"", ""normal"", ""overweight"", and "" obese "" are all labels for ranges of weight. Obese and overweight mean that your weight is greater than it should be for your health. Underweight means that it is lower than it should be for your health. Your healthy body weight depends on your sex and height. For children, it also depends on your age. A sudden, unexpected change in weight can be a sign of a medical problem. Causes for sudden weight loss can include Thyroid problems Cancer Infectious diseases Digestive diseases Certain medicines Sudden weight gain can be due to medicines, thyroid problems, heart failure, and kidney disease. Good nutrition and exercise can help in losing weight . Eating extra calories within a well-balanced diet and treating any underlying medical problems can help to add weight."
Bone Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/bonecancer.html,"Bone cancer comes in three types: Osteosarcoma, Chondrosarcoma, and Ewing's sarcoma. Learn how bone cancer is diagnosed and treated."," Cancer that starts in a bone is uncommon. Cancer that has spread to the bone from another part of the body is more common. There are three types of bone cancer: Osteosarcoma - occurs most often between ages 10 and 19. It is more common in the knee and upper arm. Chondrosarcoma - starts in cartilage, usually after age 40 Ewing's sarcoma - occurs most often in children and teens under 19. It is more common in boys than girls. The most common symptom of bone cancer is pain. Other symptoms vary, depending on the location and size of the cancer. Surgery is often the main treatment for bone cancer. Other treatments may include amputation, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Because bone cancer can come back after treatment, regular follow-up visits are important. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Bone Density,https://medlineplus.gov/bonedensity.html,Bone density or bone mineral density (BMD) is the amount of bone mineral in your bones. A BMD test measures bone health and risk for breaking bones.," Strong bones are important for your health. A bone mineral density (BMD) test is the best way to measure your bone health. It compares your bone density, or mass, to that of a healthy person who is the same age and sex as you are. It can show Whether you have osteoporosis , a disease that makes your bones weak Your risk for breaking bones Whether your osteoporosis treatment is working Low bone mass that is not low enough to be osteoporosis is sometimes called osteopenia. Causes of low bone mass include family history, not developing good bone mass when you are young, and certain conditions or medicines. Not everyone who has low bone mass gets osteoporosis, but they are at higher risk for getting it. If you have low bone mass, there are things you can do to help slow down bone loss. These include eating foods rich in calcium and vitamin D and doing weight-bearing exercise such as walking, tennis, or dancing. In some cases, your doctor may prescribe medicines to prevent osteoporosis. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Bone Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/bonediseases.html,Bone diseases increase your risk for breaking bones. Learn about different kinds of bone problems and how genetics can play a role.," Your bones help you move, give you shape and support your body. They are living tissues that rebuild constantly throughout your life. During childhood and your teens, your body adds new bone faster than it removes old bone. After about age 20, you can lose bone faster than you make bone. To have strong bones when you are young, and to prevent bone loss when you are older, you need to get enough calcium , vitamin D , and exercise. You should also avoid smoking and drinking too much alcohol. Bone diseases can make bones easy to break. Different kinds of bone problems include Low bone density and osteoporosis , which make your bones weak and more likely to break Osteogenesis imperfecta makes your bones brittle Paget's disease of bone makes them weak Bones can also develop cancer and infections Other bone diseases, which are caused by poor nutrition, genetics, or problems with the rate of bone growth or rebuilding NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Bone Grafts,https://medlineplus.gov/bonegrafts.html,A bone graft is a surgical procedure where bone tissue is transplanted from your body or a donor's. Bone grafts repair diseased bones and bone loss.," A bone graft transplants bone tissue. Surgeons use bone grafts to repair and rebuild diseased bones in your hips, knees, spine, and sometimes other bones and joints. Grafts can also repair bone loss caused by some types of fractures (broken bones) or cancers. Once your body accepts the bone graft, it provides a framework for growth of new, living bone. If the transplanted bone comes from another person , it is called an allograft. Most allograft bone comes from donors who have died. Tissue banks screen these donors and disinfect and test the donated bone to make sure it is safe to use. If the transplanted bone comes from another part of your own body, it is called an autograft. Autograft bone often comes from your ribs, hips or a leg."
Bone Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/boneinfections.html,Osteomyelitis is a bone infection. Learn about who is at risk for osteomyelitis and how these bone infections are treated and diagnosed.," Like other parts of the body, bones can get infected. The infections are usually bacterial, but can also be fungal. They may spread to the bone from nearby skin or muscles, or from another part of the body through the bloodstream. People who are at risk for bone infections include those with diabetes , poor circulation, or recent injury to the bone. You may also be at risk if you are having hemodialysis . Symptoms of bone infections include Pain in the infected area Chills and fever Swelling, warmth, and redness A blood test or imaging test such as an x-ray can tell if you have a bone infection. Treatment includes antibiotics and often surgery."
Bone Marrow Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/bonemarrowdiseases.html,Bone marrow diseases affect your body's ability to make healthy blood cells. Learn the different causes and possible treatments.," Bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside some of your bones, such as your hip and thigh bones. It contains stem cells . The stem cells can develop into the red blood cells that carry oxygen through your body, the white blood cells that fight infections, and the platelets that help with blood clotting. With bone marrow disease, there are problems with the stem cells or how they develop: In leukemia , a cancer of the blood, the bone marrow makes abnormal white blood cells In aplastic anemia , the bone marrow doesn't make red blood cells In myeloproliferative disorders, the bone marrow makes too many white blood cells Other diseases, such as lymphoma , can spread into the bone marrow and affect the production of blood cells Causes of bone marrow diseases include genetics and environmental factors. Tests for bone marrow diseases include blood and bone marrow tests. Treatments depend on the disorder and how severe it is. They might involve medicines, blood transfusions or a bone marrow transplant ."
Bone Marrow Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/bonemarrowtransplantation.html,"Bone marrow transplantation replaces faulty bone marrow with healthy bone marrow from a donor. Learn about the possible risks, and procedure."," Bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside some of your bones, such as your hip and thigh bones. It contains immature cells, called stem cells. The stem cells can develop into red blood cells, which carry oxygen throughout the body, white blood cells, which fight infections, and platelets, which help the blood to clot. A bone marrow transplant is a procedure that replaces a person's faulty bone marrow stem cells. Doctors use these transplants to treat people with certain diseases, such as Leukemia Severe blood diseases such as thalassemias , aplastic anemia , and sickle cell anemia Multiple myeloma Certain immune deficiency diseases Before you have a transplant, you need to get high doses of chemotherapy and possibly radiation. This destroys the faulty stem cells in your bone marrow. It also suppresses your body's immune system so that it won't attack the new stem cells after the transplant. In some cases, you can donate your own bone marrow stem cells in advance. The cells are saved and then used later on. Or you can get cells from a donor. The donor might be a family member or unrelated person. Bone marrow transplantation has serious risks. Some complications can be life-threatening. But for some people, it is the best hope for a cure or a longer life. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Botox,https://medlineplus.gov/botox.html,Botox injections can be used to temporarily reduce wrinkles but can also treat other health problems such as severe sweating or lazy-eye. Learn how.," Botox is a drug made from a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. It's the same toxin that causes a life-threatening type of food poisoning called botulism . Doctors use it in small doses to treat health problems, including Temporary smoothing of facial wrinkles and improving your appearance Severe underarm sweating Cervical dystonia - a neurological disorder that causes severe neck and shoulder muscle contractions Blepharospasm - uncontrollable blinking Strabismus - misaligned eyes Chronic migraine Overactive bladder Botox injections work by weakening or paralyzing certain muscles or by blocking certain nerves. The effects last about three to twelve months, depending on what you are treating. The most common side effects are pain, swelling, or bruising at the injection site. You could also have flu-like symptoms, headache, and upset stomach. Injections in the face may also cause temporary drooping eyelids. You should not use Botox if you are pregnant or breastfeeding."
Botulism,https://medlineplus.gov/botulism.html,"Botulism is caused by a bacteria. It can be serious. Find out about symptoms, causes, how to prevent it. "," Botulism is a rare but serious illness. The cause is a toxin (poison) made by a bacterium called Clostridium botulinum. It occurs naturally in soil. There are several kinds of botulism. Foodborne botulism comes from eating foods contaminated with the toxin. Wound botulism happens when a wound infected with the bacteria makes the toxin. It is more common in heroin users. Infant botulism happens when a baby consumes the spores of the bacteria from soil or honey. All forms can be deadly and are medical emergencies. Symptoms include double or blurred vision, drooping eyelids, slurred speech, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth, and muscle weakness. Treatment may include antitoxins, intensive medical care, or surgery of infected wounds. To prevent botulism: Be very careful when canning foods at home Do not let babies eat honey Get prompt medical care for infected wounds Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Bowel Incontinence,https://medlineplus.gov/bowelincontinence.html,"Learn about causes, treatment, and control of bowel incontinence. This condition is also called fecal incontinence. "," Bowel incontinence is the inability to control your bowels. When you feel the urge to have a bowel movement , you may not be able to hold it until you get to a toilet. Millions of Americans have this problem. It affects people of all ages - children and adults. It is more common in women and older adults. It is not a normal part of aging. Causes include Constipation Damage to muscles or nerves of the anus and rectum Diarrhea Pelvic floor disorders Treatments include changes in diet, medicines, bowel training, or surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Bowel Movement,https://medlineplus.gov/bowelmovement.html,Bowel movements have many names but it's all the same. Everyone has BMs.  Some are normal and some are irregular. Learn more. ," A bowel movement is the last stop in the movement of food through your digestive tract. Your stool passes out of your body through the rectum and anus. Another name for stool is feces. It is made of what is left after your digestive system (stomach, small intestine, and colon) absorbs nutrients and fluids from what you eat and drink. Sometimes a bowel movement isn't normal. Diarrhea happens when stool passes through the large intestine too quickly. Constipation occurs when stool passes through the large intestine too slowly. Bowel incontinence is a problem controlling your bowel movements. Other abnormalities with bowel movements may be a sign of a digestive problem. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Brachial Plexus Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/brachialplexusinjuries.html,"Brachial plexus injuries occur due to shoulder trauma, tumors, or inflammation. Some injuries heal without treatment, others need PT or surgery."," The brachial plexus is a network of nerves that sends signals from the spine to the shoulder, arm, and hand. Damage to the brachial plexus can cause symptoms such as A limp or paralyzed arm Lack of muscle control in the arm, hand, or wrist Lack of feeling or sensation in the arm or hand Brachial plexus injuries can happen because of shoulder trauma, tumors, or inflammation. Sometimes they happen during childbirth when a baby's shoulders become stuck during delivery and the nerves stretch or tear. Some brachial plexus injuries may heal without treatment. Many children who are injured during birth improve or recover by 3 to 4 months of age. Treatment includes physical therapy and, in some cases, surgery. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Brain Aneurysm,https://medlineplus.gov/brainaneurysm.html,A brain aneurysm is a bulge or ballooning in a blood vessel in the brain. It is life-threatening it if bursts. Learn about the signs and symptoms.," A brain aneurysm is an abnormal bulge or ""ballooning"" in the wall of an artery in the brain. They are sometimes called berry aneurysms because they are often the size of a small berry. Most brain aneurysms produce no symptoms until they become large, begin to leak blood, or burst. If a brain aneurysm presses on nerves in your brain, it can cause signs and symptoms. These can include A droopy eyelid Double vision or other changes in vision Pain above or behind the eye A dilated pupil Numbness or weakness on one side of the face or body Treatment depends on the size and location of the aneurysm, whether it is infected, and whether it has burst. If a brain aneurysm bursts, symptoms can include a sudden, severe headache, nausea and vomiting, stiff neck, loss of consciousness, and signs of a stroke . Any of these symptoms requires immediate medical attention. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Brain Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/braindiseases.html,"Brain diseases affect different functions of the body from memory, speech, thinking clearly, how well the different organs work, or even movement. "," The brain is the control center of the body. It controls thoughts, memory, speech, and movement. It regulates the function of many organs. When the brain is healthy, it works quickly and automatically. However, when problems occur, the results can be devastating. Inflammation in the brain can lead to problems such as vision loss, weakness and paralysis. Loss of brain cells, which happens if you suffer a stroke , can affect your ability to think clearly. Brain tumors can also press on nerves and affect brain function. Some brain diseases are genetic . And we do not know what causes some brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease . The symptoms of brain diseases vary widely depending on the specific problem. In some cases, damage is permanent. In other cases, treatments such as surgery, medicines, or physical therapy can correct the source of the problem or improve symptoms."
Brain Malformations,https://medlineplus.gov/brainmalformations.html,Brain malformations is damage or abnormal development of the brain and nervous system. Starts long before a baby is born. Learn types and treatments.," Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain medicines , infections , or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed. Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy. There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. Craniofacial disorders are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Brain Tumors,https://medlineplus.gov/braintumors.html,"A brain tumor is a growth of abnormal cells in the brain tissue. Learn the types of tumors, symptoms, how they are diagnosed and treatment options."," A brain tumor is a growth of abnormal cells in the tissues of the brain. Brain tumors can be benign, with no cancer cells, or malignant, with cancer cells that grow quickly. Some are primary brain tumors, which start in the brain. Others are metastatic, and they start somewhere else in the body and move to the brain. Brain tumors can cause many symptoms. Some of the most common are Headaches, often in the morning Nausea and vomiting Changes in your ability to talk, hear, or see Problems with balance or walking Problems with thinking or memory Feeling weak or sleepy Changes in your mood or behavior Seizures Doctors diagnose brain tumors by doing a neurologic exam and tests including an MRI, CT scan, and biopsy. Treatment options include watchful waiting, surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Many people get a combination of treatments. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Breast Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/breastcancer.html,"Breast cancer affects 1 in 8 women during their lives. Here's what you need to know about risk factors, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment."," What is breast cancer? Breast cancer is a cancer that starts in breast tissue. It happens when cells in the breast change and grow out of control. The cells usually form a tumor. Sometimes the cancer does not spread any further. This is called ""in situ."" If the cancer spreads outside the breast, the cancer is called ""invasive."" It may just spread to nearby tissues and lymph nodes. Or the cancer may metastasize (spread to other parts of the body) through the lymph system or the blood. Breast cancer is the second most common type of cancer in women in the United States. Rarely, it can also affect men . What are the types of breast cancer? There are different types of breast cancer. The types are based on which breast cells turn into cancer. The types include Ductal carcinoma , which begins in the cells of the ducts. This is the most common type. Lobular carcinoma , which begins in the lobules. It is more often found in both breasts than other types of breast cancer. Inflammatory breast cancer , in which cancer cells block lymph vessels in the skin of the breast. The breast becomes warm, red, and swollen. This is a rare type. Paget's disease of the breast , which is a cancer involving the skin of the nipple. It usually also affects the darker skin around the nipple. It is also rare. What causes breast cancer? Breast cancer happens when there are changes in the genetic material (DNA). Often, the exact cause of these genetic changes is unknown. But sometimes these genetic changes are inherited, meaning that you are born with them. Breast cancer that is caused by inherited genetic changes is called hereditary breast cancer. There are also certain genetic changes that can raise your risk of breast cancer, including changes called BRCA1 and BRCA2 . These two changes also raise your risk of ovarian and other cancers. Besides genetics, your lifestyle and the environment can affect your risk of breast cancer. Who is at risk for breast cancer? The factors which raise your risk of breast cancer include Older age History of breast cancer or benign (noncancer) breast disease Inherited risk of breast cancer, including having BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene changes Dense breast tissue A reproductive history that leads to more exposure to the estrogen hormone, including Menstruating at an early age Being at an older age when you first gave birth or never having given birth Starting menopause at a later age Taking hormone therapy for symptoms of menopause Radiation therapy to the breast or chest Obesity Drinking alcohol What are the signs and symptoms of breast cancer? The signs and symptoms of breast cancer include A new lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the armpit A change in the size or shape of the breast A dimple or puckering in the skin of the breast. It may look like the skin of an orange. A nipple turned inward into the breast Nipple discharge other than breast milk. The discharge might happen suddenly, be bloody, or happen in only one breast. Scaly, red, or swollen skin in the nipple area or the breast Pain in any area of the breast How is breast cancer diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose breast cancer and figure out which type you have: A physical exam, including a clinical breast exam (CBE). This involves checking for any lumps or anything else that seems unusual with the breasts and armpits. A medical history Imaging tests, such as a mammogram , an ultrasound , or an MRI Breast biopsy Blood chemistry tests, which measure different substances in the blood, including electrolytes, fats, proteins, glucose (sugar), and enzymes. Some of the specific blood chemistry tests include a basic metabolic panel (BMP) , a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) , and an electrolyte panel . If these tests show that you have breast cancer, you will have tests which study the cancer cells. These tests help your provider decide which treatment would be best for you. The tests may include Genetic tests for genetic changes such as BRCA and TP53 HER2 test . HER2 is a protein involved with cell growth. It is on the outside of all breast cells. If your breast cancer cells have more HER2 than normal, they can grow more quickly and spread to other parts of the body. An estrogen and progesterone receptor test. This test measures the amount of estrogen and progesterone ( hormones ) receptors in cancer tissue. If there are more receptors than normal, the cancer is called estrogen and/or progesterone receptor positive. This type of breast cancer may grow more quickly. Another step is staging the cancer. Staging involves doing tests to find out whether the cancer has spread within the breast or to other parts of the body. The tests may include other diagnostic imaging tests and a sentinel lymph node biopsy. This biopsy is done to see whether the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes. What are the treatments for breast cancer? Treatments for breast cancer include Surgery such as A mastectomy , which removes the whole breast A lumpectomy to remove the cancer and some normal tissue around it, but not the breast itself Radiation therapy Chemotherapy Hormone therapy, which blocks cancer cells from getting the hormones they need to grow Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells Immunotherapy Can breast cancer be prevented? You may be able to help prevent breast cancer by making healthy lifestyle changes such as Staying at a healthy weight Limiting alcohol use Getting enough exercise e Limiting your exposure to estrogen by Breastfeeding your babies if you can Limiting hormone therapy If you are at high risk, your health care provider may suggest that you take certain medicines to lower the risk. Some women at very high risk may decide to get a mastectomy (of their healthy breasts) to prevent breast cancer. It's also important to get regular mammograms. They may be able to identify breast cancer in the early stages, when it is easier to treat. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Breast Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/breastdiseases.html,"Breast changes such as lumps, bumps, and discharge are common. Some causes can be aging, hormones, and medicines. Learn what's normal and what's not."," Most women experience breast changes at some time. Your age, hormone levels, and medicines you take may cause lumps, bumps, and discharges (fluids that are not breast milk). If you have a breast lump, pain, discharge or skin irritation, see your health care provider. Minor and serious breast problems have similar symptoms. Although many women fear cancer , most breast problems are not cancer. Some common breast changes are Fibrocystic breast changes - lumpiness, thickening and swelling, often just before a woman's period Cysts - fluid-filled lumps Fibroadenomas - solid, round, rubbery lumps that move easily when pushed, occurring most in younger women Intraductal papillomas - growths similar to warts near the nipple Blocked milk ducts Milk production when a woman is not breastfeeding NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Breast Reconstruction,https://medlineplus.gov/breastreconstruction.html,Breast reconstruction can rebuild the shape of the breast after a mastectomy for breast cancer. Read about the types of implants and how it is done.," If you need a mastectomy , you have a choice about whether or not to have surgery to rebuild the shape of the breast. Instead of breast reconstruction, you could choose to wear a breast form that replaces the breast, wear padding inside your bra, or do nothing. All of these options have pros and cons. What is right for one woman may not be right for another. Breast reconstruction may be done at the same time as the mastectomy, or it may be done later on. If radiation therapy is part of the treatment plan, your doctor may suggest waiting until after radiation therapy. If you're thinking about breast reconstruction, talk to a plastic surgeon before the mastectomy, even if you plan to have your reconstruction later on. A surgeon can reconstruct the breast in many ways. Some women choose to have breast implants, which are filled with saline or silicone gel. Another method uses tissue taken from another part of your body. The plastic surgeon can take skin, muscle, and fat from your lower abdomen, back, or buttocks. The type of reconstruction that is best for you depends on your age, body type, and the type of cancer surgery that you had. A plastic surgeon can help you decide. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Breastfeeding,https://medlineplus.gov/breastfeeding.html,Breastfeeding gives your baby the right nutrients and may protect your baby against some illness. Learn about all its benefits and how to breastfeed.," Breastfeeding offers many benefits to your baby. Breast milk contains the right balance of nutrients to help your infant grow into a strong and healthy toddler. Some of the nutrients in breast milk also help protect your infant against some common childhood illnesses and infections. It may also help your health. Certain types of cancer may occur less often in mothers who have breastfed their babies. Women who don't have health problems should try to give their babies breast milk for at least the first six months of life. Most women with health problems can breastfeed. There are rare exceptions when women are advised not to breastfeed because they have certain illnesses. Some medicines, illegal drugs, and alcohol can also pass through the breast milk and cause harm to your baby. Check with your health care provider if you have concerns about whether you should breastfeed. If you are having problems with breastfeeding, contact a lactation consultant. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Breathing Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/breathingproblems.html,"When you have breathing problems, such as shortness of breath, it's hard for you to take in the oxygen your body needs.  Find out what can cause this."," When you're short of breath, it's hard or uncomfortable for you to take in the oxygen your body needs. You may feel as if you're not getting enough air. Sometimes you can have mild breathing problems because of a stuffy nose or intense exercise. But shortness of breath can also be a sign of a serious disease. Many conditions can make you feel short of breath: Lung conditions such as asthma , emphysema , or pneumonia Problems with your trachea or bronchi , which are part of your airway system Heart disease can make you feel breathless if your heart cannot pump enough blood to supply oxygen to your body Anxiety and panic attacks Allergies If you often have trouble breathing, it is important to find out the cause."
Bronchial Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/bronchialdisorders.html,"The bronchi are two tubes that carry air to your lungs. Problems with the bronchi include bronchitis, bronchiectasis, and bronchiolitis. Learn more."," When you breathe in, the air travels down through your trachea (windpipe). It then goes through two tubes to your lungs. These tubes are your bronchi. Bronchial disorders can make it hard for you to breathe. The most common problem with the bronchi is bronchitis, an inflammation of the tubes. It can be acute or chronic . Other problems include Bronchiectasis - a condition in which damage to the airways causes them to widen and become flabby and scarred Exercise-induced bronchospasm - a breathing problem that happens when your airways shrink while you are exercising Bronchiolitis - an inflammation of the small airways that branch off from the bronchi Bronchopulmonary dysplasia - a chronic lung condition in infants, most often premature infants"
Bruises,https://medlineplus.gov/bruises.html,"Learn about how bruises, or contusions, form. They happen when you get a blow or injury that breaks the small blood vessels under the skin."," A bruise is a mark on your skin caused by blood trapped under the surface. It happens when an injury crushes small blood vessels but does not break the skin. Those vessels break open and leak blood under the skin. Bruises are often painful and swollen. You can get skin, muscle and bone bruises. Bone bruises are the most serious. It can take months for a bruise to fade, but most last about two weeks. They start off a reddish color, and then turn bluish-purple and greenish-yellow before returning to normal. To reduce bruising, ice the injured area and elevate it above your heart. See your health care provider if you seem to bruise for no reason, or if the bruise appears to be infected."
Bullying and Cyberbullying,https://medlineplus.gov/bullyingandcyberbullying.html,"Bullying is when a person or group repeatedly harms someone on purpose. Cyberbullying is bullying that happens through text messages or online. Both can cause lasting harm. Learn the signs of bullying, and how to help a child who is being bullied."," What is bullying? Bullying is when a person or group repeatedly harms someone on purpose. It can be physical, social, and/or verbal. It is harmful to both the victims and the bullies, and it always involves Aggressive behavior. A difference in power, meaning that the victim is weaker or is seen as weaker. For example, bullies may try to use physical strength, embarrassing information, or popularity to harm others. Repetition, meaning it happens more than once or that it probably will happen again What are the types of bullying? There are three types of bullying: Physical bullying involves hurting a person's body or belongings. Examples include hitting, kicking, and stealing or breaking someone's stuff. Social bullying (also called relational bullying) hurts someone's reputation or relationships. Some examples are spreading rumors, embarrassing someone in public, and making someone feel left out. Verbal bullying is saying or writing mean things, including name-calling, taunting, and threatening What is cyberbullying? Cyberbullying is bullying that happens through text messages or online. It could be through emails, social media, forums, or gaming. Some examples are Posting rumors on social media Sharing embarrassing pictures or videos online Sharing someone else's private information online (doxing) Making threats against someone online Creating fake accounts and posting information to embarrass someone Certain types of cyberbullying can be illegal. The laws on cyberbullying are different from state to state. How is cyberbullying different from bullying? Cyberbullying is a type of bullying, but there are some differences between the two. Cyberbullying can be Anonymous - people can hide their identities when they are online or using a cell phone Persistent - people can send messages instantly, at any time of the day or night Permanent - a lot of electronic communication is permanent and public, unless it's reported and removed. A bad online reputation can affect getting into college, getting a job, and other areas of life. This applies to the bully as well. Hard to notice - teachers and parents may not overhear or see cyberbullying taking place Who is at risk of being bullied? Kids are at a higher risk of being bullied if they Are seen as different from their peers, such as being overweight or underweight, dressing differently, or being of a different race/ethnicity Are seen as weak Have depression , anxiety , or low self-esteem Don't have many friends or are less popular Don't socialize well with others Have an intellectual or developmental disability Who is at risk of being a bully? There are two types of kids who are more likely to bully others: Kids who are well-connected to peers, have social power, are overly worried about popularity, and like to be in charge of others Kids who are more isolated from peers, may be depressed or anxious, have low self-esteem, are easily pressured by peers, and have trouble understanding other people's feelings There are certain factors that make someone more likely to be a bully. They include Being aggressive or easily frustrated Having trouble at home, such as violence or bullying in the home or having uninvolved parents Having trouble following rules Seeing violence positively Having friends who bully others What are the effects of bullying? Bullying is a serious problem that causes harm. And it doesn't just hurt the person who is being bullied; it can also be harmful for the bullies and for any kids who witness the bullying. Kids who are bullied can have problems at school and with their mental and physical health. They are at risk for Depression, anxiety, and low self-esteem. These problems sometimes last into adulthood. Health complaints, including headaches and stomachaches Lower grades and test scores Missing and dropping out of school Kids who bully others have a higher risk for substance use, problems in school, and violence later in life. Kids who witness bullying are more likely to abuse drugs or alcohol and have mental health problems. They may also miss or skip school. What are the signs of being bullied? Often, kids who are being bullied don't report it. They may fear a backlash from the bully, or they may think that no one cares. Sometimes they feel too ashamed to talk about it. So it is important to know the signs of a bullying problem: Depression, loneliness, or anxiety Low self-esteem Headaches, stomachaches, or poor eating habits Disliking school, not wanting to go to school, or getting worse grades than before Self-destructive behaviors, such as running away from home, harming themselves , or talking about suicide Unexplained injuries Lost or destroyed clothing, books, electronics, or jewelry Trouble sleeping or frequent nightmares Sudden loss of friends or avoidance of social situations How do you help someone who is being bullied? To help a child who is being bullied, support the child and address the bullying behavior: Listen and focus on the child. Learn what's been going on and show you want to help. Assure the child that bullying is not his/her fault Know that kids who are bullied may struggle with talking about it. Consider referring them to a school counselor, psychologist, or other mental health service. Give advice about what to do. This may involve role-playing and thinking through how the child might react if the bullying occurs again. Work together to resolve the situation and protect the bullied child. The child, parents, and school or organization should be part of the solution. Follow up. Bullying may not end overnight. Make sure that the child knows that you are committed to making it stop. Make sure that the bully knows that his or her behavior is wrong and harms others Show kids that bullying is taken seriously. Make it clear to everyone that the bullying will not be tolerated. Department of Health and Human Services"
Burns,https://medlineplus.gov/burns.html,"A burn is damage to your body's tissues caused by heat, chemicals, electricity, sunlight, or radiation. Read about the different types and treatments."," A burn is damage to your body's tissues caused by heat, chemicals, electricity , sunlight , or radiation . Scalds from hot liquids and steam, building fires and flammable liquids and gases are the most common causes of burns. Another kind is an inhalation injury , caused by breathing smoke. There are three types of burns: First-degree burns damage only the outer layer of skin Second-degree burns damage the outer layer and the layer underneath Third-degree burns damage or destroy the deepest layer of skin and tissues underneath Burns can cause swelling, blistering, scarring and, in serious cases, shock , and even death. They also can lead to infections because they damage your skin's protective barrier. Treatment for burns depends on the cause of the burn, how deep it is, and how much of the body it covers. Antibiotic creams can prevent or treat infections. For more serious burns, treatment may be needed to clean the wound, replace the skin, and make sure the patient has enough fluids and nutrition. NIH: National Institute of General Medical Sciences"
Bursitis,https://medlineplus.gov/bursitis.html,Bursitis is inflammation of fluid sacs between your joints. Bursitis symptoms include pain and swelling. Learn about how to relieve bursitis symptoms.," A bursa is a small, fluid-filled sac that acts as a cushion between a bone and other moving parts, such as muscles, tendons, or skin. Bursitis occurs when a bursa becomes inflamed. People get bursitis by overusing a joint. It can also be caused by an injury. It usually occurs at the knee or elbow. Kneeling or leaning your elbows on a hard surface for a long time can make bursitis start. Doing the same kinds of movements every day or putting stress on joints increases your risk. Symptoms of bursitis include pain and swelling. Your doctor will diagnose bursitis with a physical exam and tests such as x-rays and MRIs. He or she may also take fluid from the swollen area to be sure the problem isn't an infection. Treatment of bursitis includes rest, pain medicines, or ice. If there is no improvement, your doctor may inject a drug into the area around the swollen bursa. If the joint still does not improve after 6 to 12 months, you may need surgery to repair damage and relieve pressure on the bursa. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
C. diff Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/cdiffinfections.html,C. diff or C. difficile is a bacterium that causes diarrhea. Risk factors include prolonged use of antibiotics or being elderly. Learn more.," What is C. diff? C. diff is a bacterium that can cause diarrhea and more serious intestinal conditions such as colitis. You may see it called other names - Clostridioides difficile (the new name), Clostridium difficile (an older name), and C. difficile. It causes close to half a million illnesses each year. What causes C. diff infections? C. diff bacteria are commonly found in the environment, but people usually only get C. diff infections when they are taking antibiotics . That's because antibiotics not only wipe out bad germs, they also kill the good germs that protect your body against infections. The effect of antibiotics can last as long as several months. If you come in contact with C. diff germs during this time, you can get sick. You are more likely to get a C. diff infection if you take antibiotics for more than a week. C. diff spreads when people touch food, surfaces, or objects that are contaminated with feces (poop) from a person who has C. diff. Who is at risk for C. diff infections? You are at more likely to get a C. diff infection if you Are taking antibiotics Are 65 or older Recently stayed in a hospital or nursing home Have a weakened immune system Have had a previous infection with C. diff or were exposed to it What are the symptoms of C. diff infections? The symptoms of C. diff infections include Diarrhea (loose, watery stools) or frequent bowel movements for several days Fever Stomach tenderness or pain Loss of appetite Nausea Severe diarrhea causes you to lose a lot of fluids. This can put you at risk for dehydration . How are C. diff infections diagnosed? If you have been taking antibiotics recently and have symptoms of a C. diff infection, you should see your health care provider. Your provider will ask about your symptoms and do a lab test of your stool . In some cases, you might also need an imaging test to check for complications. What are the treatments for C. diff infections? Certain antibiotics can treat C. diff infections. If you were already taking a different antibiotic when you got C. diff, you provider may ask you to stop taking that one. If you have a severe case, you may need to stay in the hospital. If you have very severe pain or serious complications, you may need surgery to remove the diseased part of your colon. About 1 in 5 people who have had a C. diff infection will get it again. It could be that your original infection came back or that you have new infection. Contact your health care provider if your symptoms come back. Can C. diff infections be prevented? There are steps you can take to try to prevent getting or spreading C. diff: Wash your hands with soap and water after you use the bathroom and before you eat If you have diarrhea, clean the bathroom that you used before anyone else uses it. Use bleach mixed with water or another disinfectant to clean the toilet seat, handle, and lid. Health care providers can also help prevent C. diff infections by taking infection control precautions and improving how they prescribe antibiotics. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Caffeine,https://medlineplus.gov/caffeine.html,Many people enjoy a cup of coffee or tea to give them a boost. But is it safe? Learn more about caffeine. ," What is caffeine? Caffeine is a bitter substance that occurs naturally in more than 60 plants including Coffee beans Tea leaves Kola nuts, which are used to flavor soft drink colas Cacao pods, which are used to make chocolate products There is also synthetic (man-made) caffeine, which is added to some medicines, foods, and drinks. For example, some pain relievers, cold medicines, and over-the-counter medicines for alertness contain synthetic caffeine. So do energy drinks and ""energy-boosting"" gums and snacks. Most people consume caffeine from drinks. The amounts of caffeine in different drinks can vary a lot, but it is generally An 8-ounce cup of coffee: 95-200 mg A 12-ounce can of cola: 35-45 mg An 8-ounce energy drink: 70-100 mg An 8-ounce cup of tea: 14-60 mg What are caffeine's effects on the body? Caffeine has many effects on your body's metabolism. It Stimulates your central nervous system, which can make you feel more awake and give you a boost of energy Is a diuretic, meaning that it helps your body get rid of extra salt and water by urinating more Increases the release of acid in your stomach, sometimes leading to an upset stomach or heartburn May interfere with the absorption of calcium in the body Increases your blood pressure Within one hour of eating or drinking caffeine, it reaches its peak level in your blood. You may continue to feel the effects of caffeine for four to six hours. What are the side effects from too much caffeine? For most people, it is not harmful to consume up to 400mg of caffeine a day. If you do eat or drink too much caffeine, it can cause health problems, such as Restlessness and shakiness Insomnia Headaches Dizziness Rapid or abnormal heart rhythm Dehydration Anxiety Dependency, so you need to take more of it to get the same results Some people are more sensitive to the effects of caffeine than others. What are energy drinks, and why can they be a problem? Energy drinks are beverages that have added caffeine. The amount of caffeine in energy drinks can vary widely, and sometimes the labels on the drinks do not give you the actual amount of caffeine in them. Energy drinks may also contain sugars, vitamins, herbs, and supplements. Companies that make energy drinks claim that the drinks can increase alertness and improve physical and mental performance. This has helped make the drinks popular with American teens and young adults. There's limited data showing that energy drinks might temporarily improve alertness and physical endurance. There is not enough evidence to show that they enhance strength or power. But what we do know is that energy drinks can be dangerous because they have large amounts of caffeine. And since they have lots of sugar, they can contribute to weight gain and worsen diabetes. Sometimes young people mix their energy drinks with alcohol. It is dangerous to combine alcohol and caffeine. Caffeine can interfere with your ability to recognize how drunk you are, which can lead you to drink more. This also makes you more likely to make bad decisions. Who should avoid or limit caffeine? You should check with your health care provider about whether you should limit or avoid caffeine if you Are pregnant , since caffeine passes through the placenta to your baby Are breastfeeding , since a small amount of caffeine that you consume is passed along to your baby Have sleep disorders , including insomnia Have migraines or other chronic headaches Have anxiety Have GERD or ulcers Have fast or irregular heart rhythms Have high blood pressure Take certain medicines or supplements, including stimulants, certain antibiotics , asthma medicines, and heart medicines. Check with your health care provider about whether there might be interactions between caffeine and any medicines and supplements that you take. Are a child or teen. Neither should have as much caffeine as adults. Children can be especially sensitive to the effects of caffeine. What is caffeine withdrawal? If you have been consuming caffeine on a regular basis and then suddenly stop, you may have caffeine withdrawal. Symptoms can include Headaches Drowsiness Irritability Nausea Difficulty concentrating These symptoms usually go away after a couple of days."
Calcium,https://medlineplus.gov/calcium.html,Your body needs calcium for many reasons. Learn what foods are high in calcium and how much calcium you need in a healthy diet.," You have more calcium in your body than any other mineral. Calcium has many important jobs. The body stores more than 99% of its calcium in the bones and teeth to help make and keep them strong. The rest is throughout the body in blood, muscle and the fluid between cells. Your body needs calcium to help muscles and blood vessels contract and expand, to secrete hormones and enzymes and to send messages through the nervous system. It is important to get plenty of calcium in the foods you eat. Foods rich in calcium include Dairy products such as milk, cheese, and yogurt Leafy, green vegetables Fish with soft bones that you eat, such as canned sardines and salmon Calcium-enriched foods such as breakfast cereals, fruit juices, soy and rice drinks, and tofu. Check the product labels. The exact amount of calcium you need depends on your age and other factors. Growing children and teenagers need more calcium than young adults. Older women need plenty of calcium to prevent osteoporosis . People who do not eat enough high-calcium foods should take a calcium supplement. NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
Campylobacter Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/campylobacterinfections.html,"If you have diarrhea, bloating, and vomiting, you may have a campylobacter infection. How do you get it? How can you treat it? Learn more. "," Campylobacter infection is a common foodborne illness . You usually get it from eating contaminated food, especially raw or undercooked poultry. You can also get it from drinking contaminated water or raw milk, or handling infected animal feces (poop). Some infected people don't have any symptoms. If you do have symptoms, they start two to five days after you are infected. They usually last about one week, and can include Diarrhea (which could be bloody) Cramping Abdominal pain Fever Fatigue Nausea and vomiting Health care providers use stool tests to make a diagnosis. Most people get better without treatment. You should drink extra fluids for as long as the diarrhea lasts. People who have a severe infection or a weakened immune system may need to take antibiotics . In rare cases, the infection can cause reactive arthritis or Guillain-Barre syndrome . To prevent Campylobacter infection, cook poultry thoroughly. Use a separate cutting board and utensils for meats. Make sure to clean them carefully with soap and hot water after you use them. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/cancer.html,"If you or someone you love has been diagnosed with cancer, learn about diagnosis, treatment, risk factors, and much more."," Cancer begins in your cells, which are the building blocks of your body. Normally, your body forms new cells as you need them, replacing old cells that die. Sometimes this process goes wrong. New cells grow even when you don't need them, and old cells don't die when they should. These extra cells can form a mass called a tumor. Tumors can be benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer while malignant ones are. Cells from malignant tumors can invade nearby tissues. They can also break away and spread to other parts of the body. Cancer is not just one disease but many diseases. There are more than 100 different types of cancer. Most cancers are named for where they start. For example, lung cancer starts in the lung, and breast cancer starts in the breast. The spread of cancer from one part of the body to another is called metastasis. Symptoms and treatment depend on the cancer type and how advanced it is. Most treatment plans may include surgery, radiation and/or chemotherapy . Some may involve hormone therapy, immunotherapy or other types of biologic therapy, or stem cell transplantation . NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cancer Alternative Therapies,https://medlineplus.gov/canceralternativetherapies.html,There are options to consider when deciding about cancer treatment. Cancer alternative therapies may help.  Learn more.," You have many choices to make about your cancer treatment. One choice you might be thinking about is complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). CAM is the term for medical products and practices that are not part of standard care. Examples of CAM therapies are acupuncture, chiropractic, and herbal medicines. People with cancer may use CAM to Help cope with the side effects of cancer treatments Ease worries of cancer treatment and related stress Feel that they are doing something more to help their own care CAM treatments do not work for everyone. Some methods, such as acupuncture, might help with nausea, pain and other side effects of cancer treatment. Talk to your doctor to make sure that all aspects of your cancer care work together. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cancer Chemotherapy,https://medlineplus.gov/cancerchemotherapy.html,"Chemotherapy may help you fight cancer. Find out about the  types of chemotherapy, side effects, and the latest news about chemotherapy."," Normally, your cells grow and die in a controlled way. Cancer cells keep growing without control. Chemotherapy is drug therapy for cancer. It works by killing the cancer cells, stopping them from spreading, or slowing their growth. However, it can also harm healthy cells, which causes side effects. You may have a lot of side effects, some, or none at all. It depends on the type and amount of chemotherapy you get and how your body reacts. Some common side effects are fatigue, nausea, vomiting, pain, and hair loss. There are ways to prevent or control some side effects. Talk with your health care provider about how to manage them. Healthy cells usually recover after chemotherapy is over, so most side effects gradually go away. Your treatment plan will depend on the cancer type, the chemotherapy drugs used, the treatment goal, and how your body responds. Chemotherapy may be given alone or with other treatments. You may get treatment every day, every week, or every month. You may have breaks between treatments so that your body has a chance to build new healthy cells. You might take the drugs by mouth, in a shot, as a cream, or intravenously (by IV). NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cancer Immunotherapy,https://medlineplus.gov/cancerimmunotherapy.html,"Immunotherapy is a cancer treatment that helps your immune system fight cancer. Learn about the different types, including targeted therapy."," Immunotherapy is a cancer treatment that helps your immune system fight cancer. It is a type of biological therapy. Biological therapy uses substances that are made from living organisms, or versions of these substances that are made in a lab. Doctors don't yet use immunotherapy as often as other cancer treatments, such as surgery, chemotherapy , and radiation therapy . But they do use immunotherapy for some types of cancer, and researchers are doing clinical trials to see whether it also works for other types. When you have cancer, some of your cells begin to multiply without stopping. They spread into the surrounding tissues. One reason that the cancer cells can keep growing and spreading is that they are able to hide from your immune system. Some immunotherapies can ""mark"" your cancer cells. This makes it easier for your immune system to find and destroy the cells. It is a type of targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Other types of immunotherapies work by boosting your immune system to work better against cancer. You could get immunotherapy intravenously (by IV), in pills or capsules, or in a cream for your skin. For bladder cancer, they might place it directly into your bladder. You may have treatment every day, week, or month. Some immunotherapies are given in cycles. It depends on your type of cancer, how advanced it is, the type of immunotherapy you get, and how well it is working. You may have side effects. The most common side effects are skin reactions at the needle site, if you get it by IV. Other side effects may include flu-like symptoms, or rarely, severe reactions. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cancer in Children,https://medlineplus.gov/cancerinchildren.html,You will have a lot of questions if your child is diagnosed with cancer. Many cancers in children can be treated. Learn about childhood cancers.," Cancer is a group related diseases. In all types of cancer, some of the body's cells begin to divide without stopping and spread into surrounding tissues. Normally, new cells form as you need them, replacing old cells that die. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when you don't need them, and old cells don't die when they should. The extra cells can form a tumor. Tumors can be benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer while malignant ones are. Cells from malignant tumors can invade nearby tissues. They can also break away and spread to other parts of the body. Children can get cancer in the same parts of the body as adults, but there are differences. Childhood cancers can occur suddenly, without early symptoms, and have a high rate of cure. The most common children's cancer is leukemia . Other cancers that affect children include brain tumors , lymphoma , and soft tissue sarcoma . Symptoms and treatment depend on the cancer type and how advanced it is. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, stem cell transplants, and/or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cancer--Living with Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/cancerlivingwithcancer.html,Living with cancer is not easy. It can take a physical and emotional toll on your health. Learn how to cope with cancer in your daily life.," Cancer is common. Half of all men and a third of women will get a diagnosis of cancer in their lifetime. Many people with cancer do survive. Millions of Americans alive today have a history of cancer. For most people with cancer, living with the disease is the biggest challenge they have ever faced. It can change your routines, roles and relationships. It can cause money and work problems. The treatment can change the way you feel and look. Learning more about ways you can help yourself may ease some of your concerns. Support from others is important. All cancer survivors should have follow-up care. Knowing what to expect after cancer treatment can help you and your family make plans, lifestyle changes, and important decisions. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Canker Sores,https://medlineplus.gov/cankersores.html,Canker sores (Aphthous ulcers) are painful sores inside of the mouth. They are non-cancerous but can cause viral infections. Read about the triggers.," Canker sores are small, round sores in your mouth . They can be on the inside of your cheek, under your tongue, or in the back of your throat. They usually have a red edge and a gray center. They can be quite painful. They are not the same as cold sores , which are caused by herpes simplex. Canker sores aren't contagious. They may happen if you have a viral infection. They may also be triggered by stress, food allergies, lack of vitamins and minerals, hormonal changes or menstrual periods. In some cases the cause is unknown. In most cases, the sores go away by themselves. Some ointments, creams or rinses may help with the pain. Avoiding hot, spicy food while you have a canker sore also helps."
Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/carbohydratemetabolismdisorders.html,"Carbs include sugar, starch, and fiber. Some disorders affect how your body uses these nutrients, causing health problems. Learn more."," Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat. Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your digestive system (enzymes) break the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body tissues. If you have a metabolic disorder , something goes wrong with this process. Carbohydrate metabolism disorders are a group of metabolic disorders. Normally your enzymes break carbohydrates down into glucose (a type of sugar). If you have one of these disorders, you may not have enough enzymes to break down the carbohydrates. Or the enzymes may not work properly. This causes a harmful amount of sugar to build up in your body. That can lead to health problems, some of which can be serious. Some of the disorders are fatal. These disorders are inherited. Newborn babies get screened for many of them, using blood tests. If there is a family history of one of these disorders, parents can get genetic testing to see whether they carry the gene. Other genetic tests can tell whether the fetus has the disorder or carries the gene for the disorder. Treatments may include special diets, supplements, and medicines. Some babies may also need additional treatments, if there are complications. For some disorders, there is no cure, but treatments may help with symptoms."
Carbohydrates,https://medlineplus.gov/carbohydrates.html,Carbohydrates are one of the basic food groups. Learn how to incorporate carbohydrates into a healthy diet.," What are carbohydrates? Carbohydrates, or carbs, are sugar molecules. Along with proteins and fats , carbohydrates are one of three main nutrients found in foods and drinks. Your body breaks down carbohydrates into glucose. Glucose, or blood sugar , is the main source of energy for your body's cells, tissues, and organs. Glucose can be used immediately or stored in the liver and muscles for later use. What are the different types of carbohydrates? There are three main types of carbohydrates: Sugars. They are also called simple carbohydrates because they are in the most basic form. They can be added to foods, such as the sugar in candy, desserts, processed foods, and regular soda. They also include the kinds of sugar that are found naturally in fruits, vegetables, and milk. Starches. They are complex carbohydrates, which are made of lots of simple sugars strung together. Your body needs to break starches down into sugars to use them for energy. Starches include bread, cereal, and pasta. They also include certain vegetables, like potatoes, peas, and corn. Fiber . It is also a complex carbohydrate. Your body cannot break down most fibers, so eating foods with fiber can help you feel full and make you less likely to overeat. Diets high in fiber have other health benefits. They may help prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation . They may also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar. Fiber is found in many foods that come from plants, including fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Which foods have carbohydrates? Common foods with carbohydrates include Grains, such as bread, noodles, pasta, crackers, cereals, and rice Fruits, such as apples, bananas, berries, mangoes, melons, and oranges Dairy products, such as milk and yogurt Legumes, including dried beans, lentils, and peas Snack foods and sweets, such as cakes, cookies, candy, and other desserts Juices, regular sodas, fruit drinks, sports drinks, and energy drinks that contain sugar Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, and peas Some foods don't have a lot of carbohydrates, such as meat, fish, poultry, some types of cheese, nuts, and oils. Which types of carbohydrates should I eat? You do need to eat some carbohydrates to give your body energy. But it's important to eat the right kinds of carbohydrates for your health: When eating grains, choose mostly whole grains and not refined grains: Whole grains are foods like whole wheat bread, brown rice, whole cornmeal, and oatmeal. They offer lots of nutrients that your body needs, like vitamins , minerals , and fiber. To figure out whether a product has a lot of whole grain, check the ingredients list on the package and see if a whole grain is one of the first few items listed. Refined grains are foods that have had some of the grains removed. This also removes some of the nutrients that are good for your health. Eat foods with lots of fiber. The Nutrition Facts label on the back of food packages tells you how much fiber a product has. Try to avoid foods that have a lot of added sugar. These foods can have many calories but not much nutrition. Eating too much added sugar raises your blood sugar and can make you gain weight. You can tell if a food or drink has added sugars by looking at the Nutrition Facts label on the back of food package. It tells you how much total sugar and added sugar is in that food or drink. How many carbohydrates should I eat? There is no one-size-fits-all amount of carbohydrates that people should eat. This amount can vary, depending on factors such as your age, sex, health, and whether or not you are trying to lose or gain weight. On average, people should get 45 to 65% of their calories from carbohydrates every day. On the Nutrition Facts labels, the Daily Value for total carbohydrates is 275 g per day. This is based on a 2,000-calorie daily diet. Your Daily Value may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs and health. Is it safe to eat a low-carb diet? Some people go on a low-carb diet to try to lose weight. This usually means eating 25g and 150g of carbs each day. This kind of diet can be safe, but you should talk to your health care provider before starting it. One problem with low-carb diets is that they can limit the amount of fiber you get each day. They can also be hard to stay on for the long term."
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning,https://medlineplus.gov/carbonmonoxidepoisoning.html,Carbon monoxide is known as the silent killer. It is a deadly gas that has no color or smell. Protect yourself and your family by learning more.," Carbon monoxide (CO) is a gas that has no odor or color. But it is very dangerous. It can cause sudden illness and death. CO is found in combustion fumes, such as those made by cars and trucks, lanterns, stoves, gas ranges and heating systems. CO from these fumes can build up in places that don't have a good flow of fresh air. You can be poisoned by breathing them in. The most common symptoms of CO poisoning are Headache Dizziness Weakness Nausea Vomiting Chest pain Confusion It is often hard to tell if someone has CO poisoning, because the symptoms may be like those of other illnesses. People who are sleeping or intoxicated can die from CO poisoning before they have symptoms. A CO detector can warn you if you have high levels of CO in your home. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Carcinoid Tumors,https://medlineplus.gov/carcinoidtumors.html,"Carcinoid tumors can happen in the lungs or digestive tract. Learn about risk factors, tests, treatment, and more. "," Carcinoid tumors are rare, slow-growing cancers. They usually start in the lining of the digestive tract or in the lungs. They grow slowly and don't produce symptoms in the early stages. As a result, the average age of people diagnosed with digestive or lung carcinoids is about 60. In later stages the tumors sometimes produce hormones that can cause carcinoid syndrome. The syndrome causes flushing of the face and upper chest, diarrhea, and trouble breathing. Surgery is the main treatment for carcinoid tumors. If they haven't spread to other parts of the body, surgery can cure the cancer."
Cardiac Arrest,https://medlineplus.gov/cardiacarrest.html,"In cardiac arrest, an irregular heart rhythm causes the heart to stop beating. Without quick treatment, it causes sudden cardiac death. Find out more."," The heart has an internal electrical system that controls the rhythm of the heartbeat. Problems can cause abnormal heart rhythms, called arrhythmias . There are many types of arrhythmia. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or it can stop beating. Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) occurs when the heart develops an arrhythmia that causes it to stop beating. This is different than a heart attack , where the heart usually continues to beat but blood flow to the heart is blocked. There are many possible causes of SCA. They include coronary heart disease, physical stress, and some inherited disorders. Sometimes there is no known cause for the SCA. Without medical attention, the person will die within a few minutes. People are less likely to die if they have early defibrillation. Defibrillation sends an electric shock to restore the heart rhythm to normal. You should give cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CPR ) to a person having SCA until defibrillation can be done. If you have had an SCA, an implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) reduces the chance of dying from a second SCA. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Cardiac Rehabilitation,https://medlineplus.gov/cardiacrehabilitation.html,Cardiac rehabilitation (rehab) is a program to help you get better after heart problems or heart surgery.  Learn what it includes and how it can help.," Cardiac rehabilitation (rehab) is a medically supervised program to help people who have A heart attack Angioplasty or coronary artery bypass grafting for coronary heart disease A heart valve repair or replacement A heart transplant or a lung transplant Angina Heart failure The goal is to help you return to an active life, and to reduce the risk of further heart problems. A team of specialists will create a plan for you that includes exercise training, education on heart healthy living, and counseling to reduce stress. You will learn how to reduce your risk factors, such as high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, depression, and diabetes. Being overweight, having obesity, smoking, and not exercising are other risk factors. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Cardiomyopathy,https://medlineplus.gov/cardiomyopathy.html,"Cardiomyopathy is a disease that causes the heart to become enlarged, thick, or stiff. Read about the different types, their symptoms, and treatments."," Cardiomyopathy is the name for diseases of the heart muscle. These diseases enlarge your heart muscle or make it thicker and more rigid than normal. In rare cases, scar tissue replaces the muscle tissue. Some people live long, healthy lives with cardiomyopathy. Some people don't even realize they have it. In others, however, it can make the heart less able to pump blood through the body. This can cause serious complications, including Heart failure Abnormal heart rhythms Heart valve problems Sudden cardiac arrest Heart attacks , high blood pressure , infections, and other diseases can all cause cardiomyopathy. Some types of cardiomyopathy run in families. In many people, however, the cause is unknown. Treatment might involve medicines, surgery, other medical procedures, and lifestyle changes. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Caregiver Health,https://medlineplus.gov/caregiverhealth.html,"Caregiving can be rewarding, but it may also be stressful and sometimes even overwhelming. Learn how to prevent or relieve caregiver stress."," What is a caregiver? A caregiver gives care to someone who needs help taking care of themselves. The person who needs help may be a child, an adult, or an older adult. They may need help because of an injury, chronic illness, or disability . Some caregivers are informal caregivers. They are usually family members or friends. Other caregivers are paid professionals. Caregivers may give care at home or in a hospital or other health care setting. Sometimes they are caregiving from a distance. The types of tasks that caregivers do may include Helping with daily tasks like bathing, eating, or taking medicine Arranging activities and medical care Making health and financial decisions How does caregiving affect the caregiver? Caregiving can be rewarding. It may help to strengthen connections to a loved one. You may feel fulfillment from helping someone else. But caregiving may also be stressful and sometimes even overwhelming. Caregiving may involve meeting complex demands without any training or help. You may also be working and have children or others to care for. To meet all of the demands, you might be putting your own needs and feelings aside. But that's not good for your long-term health. But you need to make sure that you are also taking care of yourself. What is caregiver stress? Many caregivers are affected by caregiver stress . This is the stress that comes from the emotional and physical strain of caregiving. The signs include Feeling overwhelmed Feeling alone, isolated, or deserted by others Sleeping too much or too little Gaining or losing a lot of weight Feeling tired most of the time Losing interest in activities you used to enjoy Becoming easily irritated or angered Feeling worried or sad often Having headaches or body aches often Turning to unhealthy behaviors like smoking or drinking too much alcohol How can caregiver stress affect my health? Long-term caregiver stress may put you at risk for many different health problems. Some of these problems can be serious. They include Depression and anxiety A weak immune system Excess weight and obesity Chronic diseases such as heart disease , cancer, diabetes , or arthritis . Depression and obesity can raise the risk of these diseases even more. Problems with short-term memory or paying attention What can I do to prevent or relieve caregiver stress? Taking steps to prevent or relieve caregiver stress may help prevent health problems. Remember that if you feel better, you can take better care of your loved one. It will also be easier to focus on the rewards of caregiving. Some ways to help yourself include Learning better ways to help your loved one. For examples, hospitals offer classes that can teach you how to care for someone with an injury or illness. Finding caregiving resources in your community to help you. Many communities have adult daycare services or respite services. Using one of these can give you a break from your caregiving duties. Asking for and accepting help. Make a list of ways others can help you. Let helpers choose what they would like to do. For instance, someone might sit with the person you care for while you do an errand. Someone else might pick up groceries for you. Joining a support group for caregivers. A support group can allow you to share stories, pick up caregiving tips, and get support from others who face the same challenges as you do. Being organized to make caregiving more manageable. Make to-do lists and set a daily routine. Staying in touch with family and friends. It's important for you to have emotional support. Taking care of your own health. Try to find time to be physically active on most days of the week, choose healthy foods, and get enough sleep . Make sure that you keep up with your medical care such as regular checkups and screenings . Considering taking a break from your job , if you also work and are feeling overwhelmed. Under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act, eligible employees can take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave per year to care for relatives. Check with your human resources office about your options. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Caregivers,https://medlineplus.gov/caregivers.html,"Are you a caregiver? If so, you may have to help with cooking, paying bills, and more. Learn about caregiving and how to find support for yourself. "," A caregiver gives care to someone who needs help taking care of themselves. The person who needs help may be a child, an adult, or an older adult. They may need help because of an injury or disability . Or they may have a chronic illness such as Alzheimer's disease or cancer. Some caregivers are informal caregivers. They are usually family members or friends. Other caregivers are paid professionals. Caregivers may give care at home or in a hospital or other health care setting. Sometimes they are caregiving from a distance. The types of tasks that caregivers do may include Helping with daily tasks like bathing, eating, or taking medicine Doing housework and cooking Running errands such as shopping for food and clothes Driving the person to appointments Providing company and emotional support Arranging activities and medical care Making health and financial decisions Caregiving can be rewarding. It may help to strengthen connections to a loved one. You may feel fulfillment from helping someone else. But caregiving may also be stressful and sometimes even overwhelming. You may be ""on call"" for 24 hours a day. You may also be working outside the home and taking care of children. So you need to make sure that you are not ignoring your own needs. You have to take care of your own physical and mental health as well. Because when you feel better, you can take better care of your loved one. It will also be easier to focus on the rewards of caregiving. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Carotid Artery Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/carotidarterydisease.html,"In carotid artery disease, a waxy substance (plaque) clogs the arteries that bring blood to your brain and head. Find out how it cause a stroke.  "," Your carotid arteries are two large blood vessels in your neck. They supply your brain and head with blood. If you have carotid artery disease, the arteries become narrow or blocked, usually because of atherosclerosis . Atherosclerosis is the buildup of plaque, which is made up of fat, cholesterol , calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Carotid artery disease is serious because it can block the blood flow to your brain, causing a stroke . Too much plaque in the artery can cause a blockage. You can also have a blockage when a piece of plaque or a blood clot breaks off the wall of an artery. The plaque or clot can travel through the bloodstream and get stuck in one of your brain's smaller arteries. Carotid artery disease often does not cause symptoms until the blockage or narrowing is severe. One sign may be a bruit (whooshing sound) that your doctor hears when listening to your artery with a stethoscope. Another sign is a transient ischemic attack (TIA), a ""mini-stroke."" A TIA is like a stroke, but it only lasts a few minutes, and the symptoms usually go away within an hour. Stroke is another sign. Imaging tests can confirm whether you have carotid artery disease. Treatments may include Healthy lifestyle changes Medicines Carotid endarterectomy, surgery to remove the plaque Angioplasty , a procedure to place a balloon and stent into the artery to open it and hold it open NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/carpaltunnelsyndrome.html,Is the numbness and pain in your arm and wrist a passing cramp or carpal tunnel syndrome? Learn about carpal tunnel syndrome symptoms and treatment.," You're working at your desk, trying to ignore the tingling or numbness you've had for some time in your hand and wrist . Suddenly, a sharp, piercing pain shoots through the wrist and up your arm. Just a passing cramp? It could be carpal tunnel syndrome. The carpal tunnel is a narrow passageway of ligament and bones at the base of your hand. It contains nerve and tendons. Sometimes, thickening from irritated tendons or other swelling narrows the tunnel and causes the nerve to be compressed. Symptoms usually start gradually. As they worsen, grasping objects can become difficult. Often, the cause is having a smaller carpal tunnel than other people do. Other causes include performing assembly line work, wrist injury, or swelling due to certain diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Women are three times more likely to have carpal tunnel syndrome than men. Early diagnosis and treatment are important to prevent permanent nerve damage. Your doctor diagnoses carpal tunnel syndrome with a physical exam and special nerve tests. Treatment includes resting your hand, splints, pain and anti-inflammatory medicines, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Cartilage Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/cartilagedisorders.html,Cartilage covers the ends of your bones. Sports injuries and other disorders can cause cartilage problems. Learn how to take care of your cartilage.," Cartilage is the tough but flexible tissue that covers the ends of your bones at a joint. It also gives shape and support to other parts of your body, such as your ears, nose and windpipe. Healthy cartilage helps you move by allowing your bones to glide over each other. It also protects bones by preventing them from rubbing against each other. Injured, inflamed, or damaged cartilage can cause symptoms such as pain and limited movement. It can also lead to joint damage and deformity. Causes of cartilage problems include Tears and injuries, such as sports injuries Genetic factors Other disorders, such as some types of arthritis Osteoarthritis results from breakdown of cartilage. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Cat Scratch Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/catscratchdisease.html,"If you feel sick after a you have been scratched or bitten by a cat, you may have cat scratch disease, also called cat scratch fever. Find out more. "," Cat scratch disease (CSD) is an illness caused by the bacterium Bartonella henselae. Almost half of all cats carry the infection at some point. The infection does not make cats sick. However, the scratch or bite of an infected cat can cause symptoms in people, including Swollen lymph nodes , especially around the head, neck, and upper limbs Fever Headache Fatigue Poor appetite For people with weak immune systems, CSD may cause more serious problems. The best way to avoid CSD is to avoid rough play with cats that could lead to scratches or bites. If you do get a scratch or bite, wash it well with soap and water. If the bite or scratch gets infected or if you have symptoms of CSD, call your doctor. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Cataract,https://medlineplus.gov/cataract.html,A cataract is a clouding of the lens in your eye. It affects your vision. Cataracts are very common in older people. Learn about symptoms and surgery.," A cataract is a clouding of the lens in your eye. It affects your vision. Cataracts are very common in older people. By age 80, more than half of all Americans either have a cataract or have had cataract surgery. A cataract can occur in either or both eyes. It cannot spread from one eye to the other. Common symptoms are Blurry vision Colors that seem faded Glare - headlights, lamps or sunlight may seem too bright. You may also see a halo around lights. Not being able to see well at night Double vision Frequent prescription changes in your eye wear Cataracts usually develop slowly. New glasses, brighter lighting, anti-glare sunglasses or magnifying lenses can help at first. Surgery is also an option. It involves removing the cloudy lens and replacing it with an artificial lens. Wearing sunglasses and a hat with a brim to block ultraviolet sunlight may help to delay cataracts. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Celiac Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/celiacdisease.html,"Coping with celiac disease can be challenging. Learn about gluten-free diets, signs and symptoms, tests, and more."," Celiac disease is an immune disease in which people can't eat gluten because it will damage their small intestine. If you have celiac disease and eat foods with gluten, your immune system responds by damaging the small intestine. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. It may also be in other products like vitamins and supplements, hair and skin products, toothpastes, and lip balm. Celiac disease affects each person differently. Symptoms may occur in the digestive system, or in other parts of the body. One person might have diarrhea and abdominal pain, while another person may be irritable or depressed. Irritability is one of the most common symptoms in children. Some people have no symptoms. Celiac disease is genetic. Blood tests can help your doctor diagnose the disease. Your doctor may also need to examine a small piece of tissue from your small intestine. Treatment is a diet free of gluten. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Cellulitis,https://medlineplus.gov/cellulitis.html,Cellulitis is an infection of the skin and deep underlying tissues. The cause is usually a type of strep bacteria. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," Cellulitis is an infection of the skin and deep underlying tissues. Group A strep ( streptococcal ) bacteria are the most common cause. The bacteria enter your body when you get an injury such as a bruise, burn, surgical cut, or wound. Symptoms include Fever and chills Swollen glands or lymph nodes A rash with painful, red, tender skin. The skin may blister and scab over. Your health care provider may take a sample or culture from your skin or do a blood test to identify the bacteria causing infection. Treatment is with antibiotics. They may be oral in mild cases, or intravenous (by IV) for more severe cases."
Cerebellar Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/cerebellardisorders.html,"Cerebellar disorders are problems with the cerebellum, an area of the brain that controls coordination and balance. Ataxias is one of these disorders."," When you play the piano or hit a tennis ball you are activating the cerebellum. The cerebellum is the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance. Problems with the cerebellum include Cancer Genetic disorders Ataxias - failure of muscle control in the arms and legs that result in movement disorders Degeneration - disorders caused by brain cells decreasing in size or wasting away Treatment of cerebellar disorders depends on the cause. In some cases, there is no cure but treatment may help with symptoms. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Cerebral Palsy,https://medlineplus.gov/cerebralpalsy.html,"Cerebral palsy, CP happens when areas of the brain that control movement and posture do not develop correctly or get damaged. Treatment can improve."," What is cerebral palsy (CP)? Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of disorders that cause problems with movement , balance , and posture. CP affects the cerebral motor cortex. This is the part of the brain that directs muscle movement. In fact, the first part of the name, cerebral, means having to do with the brain. The second part, palsy, means weakness or problems with using the muscles. What are the types of cerebral palsy (CP)? There are different types of CP: Spastic cerebral palsy , which is the most common type. It causes increased muscle tone, stiff muscles, and awkward movements. Sometimes it only affects one part of the body. In other cases, it can affect both arms and legs, the trunk, and the face. Dyskinetic cerebral palsy , which causes problems controlling the movement of the hands, arms, feet, and legs. This can make it hard to sit and walk. Ataxic cerebral palsy , which causes problems with balance and coordination Mixed cerebral palsy , which means that you have symptoms of more than one type What causes cerebral palsy (CP)? CP is caused by abnormal development or damage to the developing brain. It could happen when The cerebral motor cortex doesn't develop normally during fetal growth There is an injury to the brain before, during, or after birth Both the brain damage and the disabilities it causes are permanent. Who is at risk for cerebral palsy (CP)? CP is more common among boys than girls. It affects black children more often than white children. Certain medical conditions or events that can happen during pregnancy and delivery that may increase a baby's risk of being born with cerebral palsy, including Being born too small Being born too early Being born a twin or other multiple birth Being conceived by in vitro fertilization (IVF) or other assisted reproductive technology (ART) Having a mother who had an infection during pregnancy Having a mother with certain health problems in pregnancy, such as thyroid problems Severe jaundice Having complications during birth Rh incompatibility Seizures Exposure to toxins What are the signs of cerebral palsy (CP)? There are many different types and levels of disability with CP. So the signs can be different in each child. The signs usually appear in the early months of life. But sometimes there is a delay in getting a diagnosis until after age two. Infants with CP often have developmental delays. They are slow to reach developmental milestones such as learning to roll over, sit, crawl, or walk. They may also have abnormal muscle tone. They may seem floppy, or they may be stiff or rigid. It's important to know that children without CP can also have these signs. Contact your child's health care provider know if your child has any of these signs, so you can get a correct diagnosis. How is cerebral palsy (CP) diagnosed? Diagnosing CP involves several steps: Developmental monitoring (or surveillance) means tracking a child's growth and development over time. If there are any concerns about your child's development, then he or she should have a developmental screening test as soon as possible. Developmental screening involves a giving your child a short test to check for motor, movement, or other developmental delays. If the screenings are not normal, the provider will recommend some evaluations. Developmental and medical evaluations are done to diagnose which disorder your child has. The provider many use many tools to make the diagnosis: A check of your child's motor skills, muscle tone, reflexes, and posture A medical history Lab tests, genetic tests , and/or imaging tests What are the treatments for cerebral palsy (CP)? There is no cure for CP, but treatment can improve the lives of those who have it. It is important to begin a treatment program as early as possible. A team of health professionals will work with you and your child to develop a treatment plan. Common treatments include Medicines Surgery Assistive devices Physical, occupational, recreational, and speech therapy Can cerebral palsy (CP) be prevented? You cannot prevent the genetic problems that can cause CP. But it may be possible to manage or avoid some of the risk factors for CP. For example, making sure that pregnant women have been vaccinated could prevent certain infections that can cause CP in unborn babies. Using cars seats for infants and toddlers could prevent head injuries , which can be a cause of CP. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Cervical Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/cervicalcancer.html,The cervix is the lower part of a woman's uterus. Most cervical cancer is caused by the HPV virus. It can often be cured if found early - learn how.," The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows during pregnancy. Cervical cancer is caused by a virus called HPV . The virus spreads through sexual contact. Most women's bodies are able to fight HPV infection. But sometimes the virus leads to cancer. You're at higher risk if you smoke, have had many children, use birth control pills for a long time, or have HIV infection. Cervical cancer may not cause any symptoms at first. Later, you may have pelvic pain or bleeding from the vagina. It usually takes several years for normal cells in the cervix to turn into cancer cells. Your health care provider can find abnormal cells by doing a Pap test to examine cells from the cervix. You may also have an HPV test. If your results are abnormal, you may need a biopsy or other tests. By getting regular screenings , you can find and treat any problems before they turn into cancer. Treatment may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination. The choice of treatment depends on the size of the tumor, whether the cancer has spread and whether you would like to become pregnant someday. Vaccines can protect against several types of HPV, including some that can cause cancer. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cervical Cancer Screening,https://medlineplus.gov/cervicalcancerscreening.html,"Cervical cancer can often be cured if found early. Read about screening, using pap smears and testing for the HPV virus, which causes most cases."," The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows during pregnancy. Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any symptoms. Cancer found early may be easier to treat. Cervical cancer screening is usually part of a woman's health checkup . There are two types of tests: the Pap test and the HPV test. For both, the doctor or nurse collects cells from the surface of the cervix. With the Pap test, the lab checks the sample for cancer cells or abnormal cells that could become cancer later. With the HPV test, the lab checks for HPV infection. HPV is a virus that spreads through sexual contact. It can sometimes lead to cancer. If your screening tests are abnormal, your doctor may do more tests, such as a biopsy . Cervical cancer screening has risks. The results can sometimes be wrong, and you may have unnecessary follow-up tests. There are also benefits. Screening has been shown to decrease the number of deaths from cervical cancer. You and your doctor should discuss your risk for cervical cancer, the pros and cons of the screening tests, at what age to start being screened, and how often to be screened."
Cervix Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/cervixdisorders.html,"The cervix is the lower part of a woman's uterus. Read about problems that can affect the cervix, like cervicitis (inflammation) and cervical polyps."," The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows during pregnancy. The cervix has a small opening that expands during childbirth. It also allows menstrual blood to leave a woman's body. Your health care provider may perform a Pap test during your health checkup to look for changes to the cells of the cervix, including cervical cancer . Other problems with the cervix include: Cervicitis - inflammation of the cervix. This is usually from an infection. Cervical incompetence - This can happen during pregnancy. The opening of the cervix widens long before the baby is due. Cervical polyps and cysts - abnormal growths on the cervix"
Cesarean Section,https://medlineplus.gov/cesareansection.html,"Learn about Cesarean section (C-section), surgery to deliver a baby through the mother's abdomen. It is done when a vaginal birth is not safe."," A Cesarean section (C-section) is surgery to deliver a baby. The baby is taken out through the mother's abdomen. In the United States, almost one in three women has their babies this way. Some C-sections are planned, but many are done when unexpected problems happen during delivery. Reasons for a C-section may include Health problems in the mother The mother carrying more than one baby The size or position of the baby The baby's health is in danger Labor is not moving along as it should The surgery is relatively safe for mother and baby. Still, it is major surgery and carries risks. It also takes longer to recover from a C-section than from vaginal birth. It can raise the risk of having difficulties with future pregnancies. Some women may have problems attempting a vaginal birth later. Still, many women are able to have a vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC). NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Chagas Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/chagasdisease.html,"Chagas disease, also called American trypanosomiasis, is a disease caused by a parasite. It is mainly spread by kissing bugs, which are common in Latin America. It is important to get early treatment. Learn about the signs and symptoms."," What is Chagas disease? Chagas disease, or American trypanosomiasis, is an illness that can cause serious heart and stomach problems. It is caused by a parasite . Chagas disease is common in Latin America, especially in poor, rural areas. It can also be found in the United States, most often in people who were infected before they moved to the U.S. What causes Chagas disease? Chagas disease is caused by the Trypanosoma cruzi parasite. It is usually spread by infected blood-sucking bugs called triatomine bugs. They are also known as ""kissing bugs"" because they often bite people's faces. When of these bugs bites you, it leaves behind infected waste. You can become infected if you rub the waste in your eyes or nose, the bite wound, or a cut. Chagas disease can also spread through contaminated food, a blood transfusion, a donated organ, or from mother to baby during pregnancy. Who is at risk for Chagas disease? Kissing bugs can be found throughout the Americas, but they are more common in certain areas. The people who are most at risk for Chagas disease Live in rural areas of Latin America Have seen the bugs, especially in those areas Have stayed in a house with a thatched roof or with walls that have cracks or crevices What are the symptoms of Chagas disease? In the beginning, there may be no symptoms. Some people do get mild symptoms, such as Fever Fatigue Body aches Headache Loss of appetite Diarrhea Vomiting A rash A swollen eyelid These early symptoms usually go away. However, if you don't treat the infection, it stays in your body. Later, it can cause serious intestinal and heart problems such as An irregular heartbeat that can cause sudden death An enlarged heart that doesn't pump blood well Problems with digestion and bowel movements An increased chance of having a stroke How is Chagas disease diagnosed? A physical exam and blood tests can diagnose it. You may also need tests to see whether the disease has affected your intestines and heart. What are the treatments for Chagas disease? Medicines can kill the parasite, especially early on. You can also treat related problems. For example, a pacemaker helps with some heart complications. Can Chagas disease be prevented? There are no vaccines or medicines to prevent Chagas disease. If you travel to areas where it occurs, you are at higher risk if you sleep outdoors or are staying in poor housing conditions. It is important to use insecticides to prevent bites and practice food safety . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/charcotmarietoothdisease.html,"Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, CMT affects your peripheral nerves. Interrupting messages to your brain about things around you, like touch."," Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is a group of genetic nerve disorders. It is named after the three doctors who first identified it. In the United States, CMT affects about 1 in 2,500 people. CMT affects your peripheral nerves . Peripheral nerves carry movement and sensation signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Symptoms usually start around the teen years. Foot problems such as high arches or hammertoes can be early symptoms. As CMT progresses, your lower legs may weaken. Later, your hands may also become weak. Doctors diagnose CMT by doing a neurologic exam, nerve tests, genetic tests, or a nerve biopsy. There is no cure. The disease can be so mild you don't realize you have it or severe enough to make you weak. Physical therapy, occupational therapy, braces and other devices and sometimes surgery can help. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Chemical Emergencies,https://medlineplus.gov/chemicalemergencies.html,Are you prepared for a chemical emergency? Find out. ," When a hazardous chemical has been released, it may harm people's health. Chemical releases can be unintentional, as in the case of an industrial accident. They could also be planned, as in the case of a terrorist attack with a chemical weapon. Some hazardous chemicals have been developed by military organizations for use in warfare. Examples are nerve agents such as sarin and VX. Many hazardous chemicals are used in industry - for example, chlorine, ammonia, and benzene. Some can be made from everyday items such as household cleaners. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a chemical emergency, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Chest Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/chestinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Your chest is packed with vital organs, like the esophagus, lungs, and heart. Learn about the different types of chest injuries and chest disorders."," The chest is the part of the body between your neck and your abdomen. It includes the ribs and breastbone. Inside your chest are several organs, including the heart, lungs, and esophagus. The pleura, a large thin sheet of tissue, lines the inside of the chest cavity. Chest injuries and disorders include Heart diseases Lung diseases and collapsed lung Pleural disorders Esophagus disorders Broken ribs Thoracic aortic aneurysms Disorders of the mediastinum, the space between the lungs, breastbone, and spine"
Chest Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/chestpain.html,"Chest pain can be caused by a heart attack, but it can have other causes. Learn about what they are, and when you should get immediate medical help."," Having a pain in your chest can be scary. It does not always mean that you are having a heart attack . There can be many other causes, including Other heart problems, such as angina Panic attacks Digestive problems, such as heartburn or esophagus disorders Sore muscles Lung diseases, such as pneumonia , pleurisy , or pulmonary embolism Costochondritis - an inflammation of joints in your chest Some of these problems can be serious. Get immediate medical care if you have chest pain that does not go away, crushing pain or pressure in the chest, or chest pain along with nausea, sweating, dizziness or shortness of breath. Treatment depends on the cause of the pain."
Chiari Malformation,https://medlineplus.gov/chiarimalformation.html,Chiari Malformation (CMs) is a congenital condition in which brain tissue extends to the spinal canal. Learn about the different types and symptoms. ," Chiari malformations (CMs) are structural defects in the cerebellum. The cerebellum is the part of the brain that controls balance. With CM, brain tissue extends into the spinal canal. It can happen when part of the skull is too small, which pushes the brain tissue down. There are several types of CM. One type often happens in children who have neural tube defects . Some types cause no symptoms and don't need treatment. If you have symptoms, they may include Neck pain Balance problems Numbness or other abnormal feelings in the arms or legs Dizziness Vision problems Difficulty swallowing Poor hand coordination Doctors diagnose CM using imaging tests. Medicines may ease some symptoms, such as pain. Surgery is the only treatment available to correct or stop the progression of nerve damage. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Chickenpox,https://medlineplus.gov/chickenpox.html,Chickenpox is a contagious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It causes an itchy rash with blisters. Learn about vaccines and treatment.," Chickenpox is an infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus. Most cases are in children under age 15, but older children and adults can get it. It spreads very easily from one person to another. The classic symptom of chickenpox is an uncomfortable, itchy rash. The rash turns into fluid-filled blisters and eventually into scabs. It usually shows up on the face, chest, and back and then spreads to the rest of the body. Other symptoms include Fever Headache Tiredness Loss of appetite Chickenpox is usually mild and lasts 5 to 10 days. Calamine lotions and oatmeal baths can help with itching. Acetaminophen can treat the fever. Do not use aspirin for chickenpox; that combination can cause Reye syndrome . Chickenpox can sometimes cause serious problems. Adults, babies, teenagers, pregnant women, and those with weak immune systems tend to get sicker from it. They may need to take antiviral medicines. Once you catch chickenpox, the virus usually stays in your body. You probably will not get chickenpox again, but the virus can cause shingles in adults. A chickenpox vaccine can help prevent most cases of chickenpox, or make it less severe if you do get it. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Chikungunya,https://medlineplus.gov/chikungunya.html,"Mosquitoes carry the Chikungunya virus. Learn about Chikungunya prevention, symptoms, treatment, and more."," Chikungunya is a virus that spread by the same kinds of mosquitoes that spread dengue and Zika virus . Rarely, it can spread from mother to newborn around the time of birth. It may also possibly spread through infected blood. There have been outbreaks of chikungunya virus in Africa, Asia, Europe, the Indian and Pacific Oceans, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. Most people who are infected will have symptoms, which can be severe. They usually start 3-7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. The most common symptoms are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, and rash. Most people feel better within a week. In some cases, however, the joint pain may last for months. People at risk for more severe disease include newborns, older adults, and people with diseases such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or heart disease. A blood test can show whether you have chikungunya virus. There are no vaccines or medicines to treat it. Drinking lots of fluids, resting, and taking non-aspirin pain relievers might help. The best way to prevent chikungunya infection is to avoid mosquito bites : Use insect repellent Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs, and feet Stay in places that have air conditioning or that use window and door screens Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Child Abuse,https://medlineplus.gov/childabuse.html,Child abuse can have many forms. It can have long lasting emotional effects. Learn about child abuse.," Child abuse is doing something or failing to do something that results in harm to a child or puts a child at risk of harm. Child abuse can be physical, sexual or emotional. Neglect, or not providing for a child's needs, is also a form of abuse. Most abused children suffer greater emotional than physical damage. An abused child may become depressed. He or she may withdraw, think of suicide or become violent. An older child may use drugs or alcohol, try to run away or abuse others. Child abuse is a serious problem. If you suspect a child is being abused or neglected, call the police or your local child welfare agency."
Child Behavior Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/childbehaviordisorders.html,"Is your child showing aggression, hostility, or other disruptive behaviors? Learn about childhood behavior disorders and how to help your child."," All kids misbehave some times. And some may have temporary behavior problems due to stress. For example, the birth of a sibling, a divorce, or a death in the family may cause a child to act out. Behavior disorders are more serious. They involve a pattern of hostile, aggressive, or disruptive behaviors for more than 6 months. The behavior is also not appropriate for the child's age. Warning signs can include Harming or threatening themselves, other people or pets Damaging or destroying property Lying or stealing Not doing well in school, skipping school Early smoking, drinking or drug use Early sexual activity Frequent tantrums and arguments Consistent hostility toward authority figures If you see signs of a problem, ask for help. Poor choices can become habits. Kids who have behavior problems are at higher risk for school failure, mental health problems , and even suicide . Classes or family therapy may help parents learn to set and enforce limits. Talk therapy and behavior therapy for your child can also help."
Child Dental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/childdentalhealth.html,Healthy teeth are important to your child's dental health. Here are a few things you can do to promote healthy teeth and steer clear of a cavity. ," Healthy teeth are important to your child's overall health. From the time your child is born, there are things you can do to promote healthy teeth and prevent cavities . For babies, you should clean teeth with a soft, clean cloth or baby's toothbrush. Avoid putting the baby to bed with a bottle and check teeth regularly for spots or stains. For all children, you should Start using a pea-sized amount of fluoride toothpaste when they are two years old. You might start sooner, if a dentist or doctor suggests it. Provide healthy foods and limit sweet snacks and drinks Schedule regular dental check-ups Forming good habits at a young age can help your child have healthy teeth for life. NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
Child Development,https://medlineplus.gov/childdevelopment.html,"Ever wonder what's ""normal"" for your child? Child development includes physical, intellectual, social, and emotional changes. Learn more."," As children grow older, they develop in several different ways. Child development includes physical, intellectual, social, and emotional changes. Children grow and mature at very different rates. It's hard to say what ""normal"" is. There can be big differences in height, weight, and build among healthy children. Diet, exercise and genes are all factors. Some children begin puberty or are close to it before they are teenagers. Children start to become more independent from their parents. They may rebel. They also look outward - to their friends, who are usually of the same sex. Peer approval becomes very important. Your child may try new behaviors to be part of ""the group."" This can also be the time that parents or teachers recognize learning disabilities or behavioral problems in children. These problems can get worse as time goes on, so it is important to get help early."
Child Mental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/childmentalhealth.html,"It's important to recognize and treat mental illnesses in children early on. Learn about warning signs, tests, and therapies"," It's important to recognize and treat mental illnesses in children early on. Once mental illness develops, it becomes a regular part of your child's behavior. This makes it more difficult to treat. But it's not always easy to know when your child has a serious problem. Everyday stresses can cause changes in your child's behavior. For example, getting a new brother or sister or going to a new school may cause a child to temporarily act out. Warning signs that it might be a more serious problem include Problems in more than one setting (at school, at home, with peers) Changes in appetite or sleep Social withdrawal or fear of things he or she did not used to be not afraid of Returning to behaviors more common in younger children, such as bedwetting Signs of being upset, such as sadness or tearfulness Signs of self-destructive behavior, such as head-banging or suddenly getting hurt often Repeated thoughts of death To diagnose mental health problems, the doctor or mental health specialist looks at your child's signs and symptoms, medical history, and family history. Treatments include medicines and talk therapy. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Child Nutrition,https://medlineplus.gov/childnutrition.html,What should be on your kid's plate? A healthy diet helps children grow and learn. Learn more about nutrition for children.," A healthy diet helps children grow and learn. It also helps prevent obesity and weight-related diseases, such as diabetes. To give your child a nutritious diet Make half of what is on your child's plate fruits and vegetables Choose healthy sources of protein, such as lean meat, nuts, and eggs Serve whole-grain breads and cereals because they are high in fiber. Reduce refined grains. Broil, grill, or steam foods instead of frying them Limit fast food and junk food Offer water or milk instead of sugary fruit drinks and sodas Learn about your children's nutrient requirements. Some of them, such as the requirements for iron and calcium, change as your child ages. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Child Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/childsafety.html,What steps should you take to ensure your child's safety? Get specifics on safety for kids.," As parents, we want to keep our children safe from harm. Take steps to keep your children safe: Install the right child safety seat in your car Teach children how to cross the street safely Make sure they wear the right gear and equipment for sports Install and test smoke alarms Store medicines, cleaners and other dangerous substances in locked cabinets Babyproof your home Don't leave small children unattended"
Child Sexual Abuse,https://medlineplus.gov/childsexualabuse.html,Sexual abuse is one form of child abuse.  It includes a wide range of actions between a child and an adult or older child. Learn the facts.," Sexual abuse is one form of child abuse . It includes a wide range of actions between a child and an adult or older child. Often these involve body contact, but not always. Exposing one's genitals to children or pressuring them for sex is sexual abuse. Using a child for pornography is also sexual abuse. Most sexual abusers know the child they abuse. They may be family friends, neighbors or babysitters. About one-third of abusers are related to the child. Most abusers are men. If you think a child may have been abused, it's important to report it."
Childbirth,https://medlineplus.gov/childbirth.html,"Childbirth is the process of having a baby. Learn about the 3 stages of labor, and how you can prepare, tell if you are in labor, and manage the pain."," When you are ready to have your baby, you'll go through labor. Labor is the process of giving birth. Signs that you might be going into labor include Contractions that are regular then start to come closer together Leaking fluid or bleeding from the vagina Low, dull backache Abdominal cramps Call your health care provider if you have any of these signs, even if it is before your due date. Preterm labor can start before 37 completed weeks of pregnancy. Labor happens in three stages. The first stage begins with contractions. It continues until your cervix has become thinner and dilated (stretched) to about 4 inches wide. The second stage is the active stage, in which you begin to push downward. Crowning is when your baby's scalp comes into view. Shortly afterward, your baby is born. In the third stage, you deliver the placenta. The placenta is the organ that supplied food and oxygen to your baby during pregnancy. Mothers and babies are monitored closely during labor. Most women are able to have a baby through normal vaginal delivery. If there are complications , the baby may need to be delivered surgically by a Cesarean section . NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Childbirth Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/childbirthproblems.html,"Complications may happen during childbirth including preterm labor, problems with the umbilical cord or position of the baby, and birth injuries."," Childbirth is the process of giving birth to a baby. It includes labor and delivery. Usually everything goes well, but problems can happen. They may cause a risk to the mother, baby, or both. Some of the more common childbirth problems include Preterm (premature) labor , when your labor starts before 37 completed weeks of pregnancy Premature rupture of membranes (PROM), when your water breaks too early. If labor does not start soon afterwards, this can raise the risk of infection. Problems with the placenta , such as the placenta covering the cervix, separating from the uterus before birth, or being attached too firmly to the uterus Labor that does not progress , meaning that labor is stalled. This can happen when Your contractions weaken Your cervix does not dilate (open) enough or is taking too long to dilate The baby is not in the right position The baby is too big or your pelvis is too small for the baby to move through the birth canal Abnormal heart rate of the baby. Often, an abnormal heart rate is not a problem. But if the heart rate gets very fast or very slow, it can be a sign that your baby is not getting enough oxygen or that there are other problems. Problems with the umbilical cord , such as the cord getting caught on the baby's arm, leg, or neck. It's also a problem if cord comes out before the baby does. Problems with the position of the baby , such as breech, in which the baby is going to come out feet first Shoulder dystocia , when the baby's head comes out, but the shoulder gets stuck Perinatal asphyxia , which happens when the baby does not get enough oxygen in the uterus, during labor or delivery, or just after birth Perineal tears , tearing of your vagina and the surrounding tissues Excessive bleeding , which can happen when the delivery causes tears to the uterus or if you are not able to deliver the placenta after you give birth to the baby Post-term pregnancy , when your pregnancy lasts more than 42 weeks If you have problems in childbirth, your health care provider may need to give you medicines to induce or speed up labor, use tools to help guide the baby out of the birth canal, or deliver the baby by Cesarean section . NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Childhood Brain Tumors,https://medlineplus.gov/childhoodbraintumors.html,Childhood brain tumors are abnormal growths inside the skull of children. Even benign tumors can be serious. Learn when a child should see a doctor.," Brain tumors are abnormal growths inside the skull. They are among the most common types of childhood cancers . Some are benign tumors, which aren't cancer. They can still be serious. Malignant tumors are cancerous. Childhood brain and spinal cord tumors can cause headaches and other symptoms. However, other conditions can also cause the same symptoms. Check with a doctor if your child has any of the following problems: Morning headache or headache that goes away after vomiting Frequent nausea and vomiting Vision, hearing, and speech problems Loss of balance or trouble walking Unusual sleepiness Personality changes Seizures Increased head size in infants The symptoms are not the same in every child. Doctors use physical and neurological exams, lab tests, and imaging to diagnose brain tumors. Most childhood brain tumors are diagnosed and removed in surgery. Treatment for children is sometimes different than for an adult. Long-term side effects are an important issue. The options also depend on the type of tumor and where it is. Removal of the tumor is often possible. If not, radiation, chemotherapy, or both may be used. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Childhood Leukemia,https://medlineplus.gov/childhoodleukemia.html,"Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells, it is the most common type of childhood cancer. Learn about the symptoms, and treatment options."," What is leukemia? Leukemia is a term for cancers of the blood cells. Leukemia starts in blood-forming tissues such as the bone marrow. Your bone marrow makes the cells which will develop into white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. Each type of cell has a different job: White blood cells help your body fight infection Red blood cells deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs Platelets help form clots to stop bleeding When you have leukemia, your bone marrow makes large numbers of abnormal cells. This problem most often happens with white blood cells. These abnormal cells build up in your bone marrow and blood. They crowd out the healthy blood cells and make it hard for your cells and blood to do their work. What are the types of leukemia in children? There are different types of leukemia. Some types are acute (fast growing). They usually get worse quickly if they are not treated. Most childhood leukemias are acute: Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) , which is the most common type of leukemia in children and the most common cancer in children . In ALL, the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) , which happens when bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. Other types of leukemia are chronic (slow growing). They usually get worse over a longer period of time. They are rare in children: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in which the bone marrow makes abnormal lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). It is more common in teens than children. Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), in which the bone marrow makes abnormal granulocytes (a type of white blood cell). It is very rare in children. There are some other rare types of leukemia in children, including juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). What causes leukemia in children? Leukemia happens when there are changes in the genetic material (DNA) in bone marrow cells. The cause of these genetic changes is unknown. However, there are certain factors that raise the risk of childhood leukemia. Who is at risk for leukemia in children? The factors that raise the risk of childhood leukemia include Having a brother or sister, especially a twin, with leukemia Past treatment with chemotherapy Exposure to radiation , including radiation therapy Having certain genetic conditions , such as Ataxia telangiectasia Down syndrome Fanconi anemia Li-Fraumeni syndrome Neurofibromatosis type 1 There are other factors that may raise the risk of getting one or more of the specific types of childhood leukemia. What are the symptoms of leukemia in children? Some of the symptoms of leukemia may include Feeling tired Fever or night sweats Easy bruising or bleeding Weight loss or loss of appetite Petechiae, which are tiny red dots under the skin. They are caused by bleeding. Other leukemia symptoms can be different from type to type. Chromic leukemia may not cause symptoms at first. How is leukemia in children diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose leukemia: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC) Bone marrow tests. There are two main types - bone marrow aspiration and bone marrow biopsy. Both tests involve removing a sample of bone marrow and bone. The samples are sent to a lab for testing. Genetic tests to look for gene and chromosome changes Once there is a diagnosis of leukemia, other tests may be done to see whether the cancer has spread. These include imaging tests and a lumbar puncture, which is a procedure to collect and test cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). What are the treatments for leukemia in children? The treatments for leukemia depend on which type it is, how severe the leukemia is, the child's age, and other factors. Possible treatments might include chemotherapy radiation therapy Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells Treatment for childhood leukemia is often successful. But the treatments can cause complications right away or later in life. Children who survived leukemia will need follow-up care the rest of their lives to watch for and treat any complications they may have. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Childhood Vaccines,https://medlineplus.gov/childhoodvaccines.html,"Childhood vaccines, or immunizations, protect your children from many serious or even deadly diseases. Learn about why and when you should vaccinate your children."," What are vaccines? Vaccines are injections (shots), liquids, pills, or nasal sprays that you take to teach the immune system to recognize and defend against harmful germs. The germs could be viruses or bacteria . Some types of vaccines contain germs that cause disease. But the germs have been killed or weakened enough that they won't make your child sick. Some vaccines only contain a part of a germ. Other types of vaccines include instructions for your cells to make a protein of the germ. These different vaccine types all spark an immune response, which helps the body fight off the germs. Your child's immune system will also remember the germ and attack it if that germ ever invades again. This protection against a certain disease is called immunity. Why do I need to vaccinate my child? Babies are born with immune systems that can fight most germs, but there are some serious diseases they can't handle. That's why they need vaccines to strengthen their immune system. These diseases once killed or harmed many infants, children, and adults. But now with vaccines, your child can get immunity from these diseases without having to get sick. And for a few vaccines, getting vaccinated can actually give you a better immune response than getting the disease would. Vaccinating your child also protects others. Normally, germs can travel quickly through a community and make a lot of people sick. If enough people get sick, it can lead to an outbreak. But when enough people are vaccinated against a certain disease, it's harder for that disease to spread to others. This means that the entire community is less likely to get the disease. Community immunity is especially important for the people who can't get certain vaccines. For example, they may not be able to get a vaccine because they have weakened immune systems. Others may be allergic to certain vaccine ingredients. And newborn babies are too young to get some vaccines. Community immunity can help to protect them all. Are vaccines safe for children? Vaccines are safe . They must go through extensive safety testing and evaluation before they are approved in the United States. Some people worry that childhood vaccines could cause autism spectrum disorder (ASD). But many scientific studies have looked at this and have found no link between vaccines and autism. Can vaccines overload my child's immune system? No, vaccines do not overload the immune system. Every day, a healthy child's immune system successfully fights off thousands of germs. When your child gets vaccines, they are getting weakened or dead germs. So even if they get several vaccines in one day, they are being exposed to a tiny amount of germs compared to what they encounter every day in their environment. When do I need to vaccinate my child? Your child will get vaccines during well-child visits . They will be given according to the vaccine schedule. This schedule lists which vaccines are recommended for children. It includes who should get the vaccines, how many doses they need, and at what age they should get them. In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) publishes the vaccine schedule. Following the vaccine schedule allows your child to get protection from the diseases at exactly the right time. It gives his or her body the chance to build up immunity before being exposed to these very serious diseases."
Children's Health,https://medlineplus.gov/childrenshealth.html,"Most parents know the basics of keeping their child healthy, but what else do you need to know? Learn about issues related to your kid's health."," Your child's health includes physical, mental and social well-being. Most parents know the basics of keeping children healthy, like offering them healthy foods , making sure they get enough sleep and exercise and insuring their safety . It is also important for children to get regular checkups with their health care provider. These visits are a chance to check your child's development . They are also a good time to catch or prevent problems. Other than checkups, school-age children should be seen for Significant weight gain or loss Sleep problems or change in behavior Fever higher than 102 Rashes or skin infections Frequent sore throats Breathing problems"
Chiropractic,https://medlineplus.gov/chiropractic.html,Chiropractic is a health care profession. Chiropractors perform manipulations to the spine or other parts of the body. Read more.," Chiropractic is a health care profession. Chiropractors perform adjustments (manipulations) to the spine or other parts of the body. The goal is to correct alignment problems, ease pain, and support the body's natural ability to heal itself. They may also use other treatments including Heat and ice Electrical stimulation Relaxation techniques Rehabilitative and general exercise Counseling about diet, weight loss, and other lifestyle factors Dietary supplements Many people visit chiropractors for treatment of low back pain , neck pain, and headaches . NIH: National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health"
Chlamydia Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/chlamydiainfections.html,Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease that men and women can get. Chlamydia usually does not have symptoms. Learn about tests and prevention.," What is chlamydia? Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease . It is caused by bacteria called Chlamydia trachomatis. It can infect both men and women. Women can get chlamydia in the cervix, rectum, or throat. Men can get chlamydia in the urethra (inside the penis), rectum, or throat. How do you get chlamydia? You can get chlamydia during oral, vaginal, or anal sex with someone who has the infection. A woman can also pass chlamydia to her baby during childbirth. If you've had chlamydia and were treated in the past, you can get re-infected if you have unprotected sex with someone who has it. Who is at risk of getting chlamydia? Chlamydia is more common in young people, especially young women. You are more likely to get it if you don't consistently use a condom, or if you have multiple partners. What are the symptoms of chlamydia? Chlamydia doesn't usually cause any symptoms. So you may not realize that you have it. People with chlamydia who have no symptoms can still pass the disease to others. If you do have symptoms, they may not appear until several weeks after you have sex with an infected partner. Symptoms in women include Abnormal vaginal discharge, which may have a strong smell A burning sensation when urinating Pain during intercourse If the infection spreads, you might get lower abdominal pain, pain during sex, nausea, or fever. Symptoms in men include Discharge from your penis A burning sensation when urinating Burning or itching around the opening of your penis Pain and swelling in one or both testicles (although this is less common) If the chlamydia infects the rectum (in men or women), it can cause rectal pain, discharge, and/or bleeding. How is chlamydia diagnosed? There are lab tests to diagnose chlamydia. Your health care provider may ask you to provide a urine sample. For women, providers sometimes use (or ask you to use) a cotton swab to get a sample from your vagina to test for chlamydia. Who should be tested for chlamydia? You should go to your health provider for a test if you have symptoms of chlamydia, or if you have a partner who has a sexually transmitted disease. Pregnant women should get a test when they go to their first prenatal visit . People at higher risk should get checked for chlamydia every year: Sexually active women 25 and younger Older women who have new or multiple sex partners, or a sex partner who has a sexually transmitted disease Men who have sex with men (MSM) What other problems can chlamydia cause? In women, an untreated infection can spread to your uterus and fallopian tubes, causing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID can cause permanent damage to your reproductive system. This can lead to long-term pelvic pain , infertility , and ectopic pregnancy . Women who have had chlamydia infections more than once are at higher risk of serious reproductive health complications. Men often don't have health problems from chlamydia. Sometimes it can infect the epididymis (the tube that carries sperm). This can cause pain, fever, and, rarely, infertility . Both men and women can develop reactive arthritis because of a chlamydia infection. Reactive arthritis is a type of arthritis that happens as a ""reaction"" to an infection in the body. Babies born to infected mothers can get eye infections and pneumonia from chlamydia. It may also make it more likely for your baby to be born too early. Untreated chlamydia may also increase your chances of getting or giving HIV/AIDS . What are the treatments for chlamydia? Antibiotics will cure the infection. You may get a one-time dose of the antibiotics, or you may need to take medicine every day for 7 days. Antibiotics cannot repair any permanent damage that the disease has caused. To prevent spreading the disease to your partner, you should not have sex until the infection has cleared up. If you got a one-time dose of antibiotics, you should wait 7 days after taking the medicine to have sex again. If you have to take medicine every day for 7 days, you should not have sex again until you have finished taking all of the doses of your medicine. It is common to get a repeat infection, so you should get tested again about three months after treatment. Can chlamydia be prevented? The only sure way to prevent chlamydia is to not have vaginal, anal, or oral sex. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading chlamydia. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Choking,https://medlineplus.gov/choking.html,"Do you know how to respond if you see someone choking? Learn how to respond with back blows, the Heimlich maneuver (abdominal thrusts), and CPR. "," Food or small objects can cause choking if they get caught in your throat and block your airway. This keeps oxygen from getting to your lungs and brain. If your brain goes without oxygen for more than four minutes, you could have brain damage or die. Young children are at an especially high risk of choking. They can choke on foods like hot dogs, nuts and grapes, and on small objects like toy pieces and coins. Keep hazards out of their reach and supervise them when they eat. When someone is choking, quick action can be lifesaving. Learn how to do back blows, the Heimlich maneuver (abdominal thrusts), and CPR ."
Cholera,https://medlineplus.gov/cholera.html,Cholera is a bacterial infection that causes diarrhea caused by bacteria usually found in contaminated water. Learn about symptoms and treatment. ," Cholera is a bacterial infection that causes diarrhea . The cholera bacterium is usually found in water or food that has been contaminated by feces (poop). Cholera is rare in the US. You may get it if you travel to parts of the world with poor water and sewage treatment. Outbreaks can also happen after disasters. The disease is not likely to spread directly from person to person. Cholera infections are often mild. Some people don't have any symptoms. If you do get symptoms, they usually start 2 to 3 days after infection. The most common symptom is watery diarrhea. In some cases, the infection can be severe, causing lots of watery diarrhea, vomiting, and leg cramps. Because you quickly lose body fluids, you are at risk for dehydration and shock . Without treatment, you could die within hours. If you think that you might have cholera, you should get medical care right away. Doctors diagnose cholera with a stool sample or rectal swab. Treatment is the replacement of the fluid and salts that you lost through the diarrhea. This is usually with a rehydration solution that you drink. People with severe cases may need an I.V. to replace the fluids. Some of them may also need antibiotics . Most people who get fluid replacement right away will recover. There are vaccines to prevent cholera. One of them is available for adults in the U.S. Very few Americans need it, because most people do not visit areas that have an active cholera outbreak. There are also simple steps you can take to help to prevent cholera infection: Use only bottled or purified water for drinking, washing dishes, making ice cubes, and brushing your teeth If you do use tap water, boil it or use iodine tablets Wash your hands often with soap and clean water Make sure that the cooked food you eat is fully cooked and served hot Avoid unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Cholesterol,https://medlineplus.gov/cholesterol.html,"Your body needs some cholesterol, but too much can raise your risk of heart disease. Know the types (HDL and LDL), and how to lower high cholesterol."," What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in your body. Your body needs some cholesterol to make hormones, vitamin D, and substances that help you digest foods. Your body makes all the cholesterol it needs. Cholesterol is also found in foods from animal sources, such as egg yolks, meat, and cheese. If you have too much cholesterol in your blood, it can combine with other substances in the blood to form plaque. Plaque sticks to the walls of your arteries. This buildup of plaque is known as atherosclerosis . It can lead to coronary artery disease , where your coronary arteries become narrow or even blocked. What are HDL, LDL, and VLDL? HDL, LDL, and VLDL are lipoproteins. They are a combination of fat (lipid) and protein. The lipids need to be attached to the proteins so they can move through the blood. Different types of lipoproteins have different purposes: HDL stands for high-density lipoprotein. It is sometimes called ""good"" cholesterol because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Your liver then removes the cholesterol from your body. LDL stands for low-density lipoprotein. It is sometimes called ""bad"" cholesterol because a high LDL level leads to the buildup of plaque in your arteries. VLDL stands for very low-density lipoprotein. Some people also call VLDL a ""bad"" cholesterol because it too contributes to the buildup of plaque in your arteries. But VLDL and LDL are different; VLDL mainly carries triglycerides and LDL mainly carries cholesterol. What causes high cholesterol? The most common cause of high cholesterol is an unhealthy lifestyle. This can include Unhealthy eating habits, such as eating lots of bad fats. One type, saturated fat, is found in some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods. Another type, trans fat, is in some fried and processed foods. Eating these fats can raise your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Lack of physical activity, with lots of sitting and little exercise. This lowers your HDL (good) cholesterol. Smoking, which lowers HDL cholesterol, especially in women. It also raises your LDL cholesterol. Genetics may also cause people to have high cholesterol. For example, familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an inherited form of high cholesterol. Other medical conditions and certain medicines may also cause high cholesterol. What can raise my risk of high cholesterol? A variety of things can raise your risk for high cholesterol: Age. Your cholesterol levels tend to rise as you get older. Even though it is less common, younger people, including children and teens , can also have high cholesterol. Heredity. High blood cholesterol can run in families. Weight. Being overweight or having obesity raises your cholesterol level. Race. Certain races may have an increased risk of high cholesterol. For example, African Americans typically have higher HDL and LDL cholesterol levels than whites. What health problems can high cholesterol cause? If you have large deposits of plaque in your arteries, an area of plaque can rupture (break open). This can cause a blood clot to form on the surface of the plaque. If the clot becomes large enough, it can mostly or completely block blood flow in a coronary artery. If the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle is reduced or blocked, it can cause angina (chest pain) or a heart attack . Plaque also can build up in other arteries in your body, including the arteries that bring oxygen-rich blood to your brain and limbs. This can lead to problems such as carotid artery disease , stroke , and peripheral arterial disease . How is high cholesterol diagnosed? There are usually no signs or symptoms that you have high cholesterol. There is a blood test to measure your cholesterol level. When and how often you should get this test depends on your age, risk factors, and family history. The general recommendations are: For people who are age 19 or younger: The first test should be between ages 9 to 11 Children should have the test again every 5 years Some children may have this test starting at age 2 if there is a family history of high blood cholesterol, heart attack, or stroke For people who are age 20 or older: Younger adults should have the test every 5 years Men ages 45 to 65 and women ages 55 to 65 should have it every 1 to 2 years How can I lower my cholesterol? You can lower your cholesterol through heart-healthy lifestyle changes. They include a heart-healthy eating plan , weight management , and regular physical activity . If the lifestyle changes alone do not lower your cholesterol enough, you may also need to take medicines. There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available, including statins . If you take medicines to lower your cholesterol, you still should continue with the lifestyle changes. Some people with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) may receive a treatment called lipoprotein apheresis. This treatment uses a filtering machine to remove LDL cholesterol from the blood. Then the machine returns the rest of the blood back to the person. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know,https://medlineplus.gov/cholesterollevelswhatyouneedtoknow.html,"Cholesterol is a fat-like substance. You need some, but too much can build up in your arteries and raise your risk of heart disease."," What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in your body. Your liver makes cholesterol, and it is also in some foods, such as meat and dairy products. Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much cholesterol in your blood, you have a higher risk of coronary artery disease . How do you measure cholesterol levels? A blood test called a lipoprotein panel can measure your cholesterol levels. Before the test, you'll need to fast (not eat or drink anything but water) for 9 to 12 hours. The test gives information about your Total cholesterol - a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in your blood. It includes both low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol. LDL (bad) cholesterol - the main source of cholesterol buildup and blockage in the arteries HDL (good) cholesterol - HDL helps remove cholesterol from your arteries Non-HDL - this number is your total cholesterol minus your HDL. Your non-HDL includes LDL and other types of cholesterol such as VLDL (very-low-density lipoprotein). Triglycerides - another form of fat in your blood that can raise your risk for heart disease, especially in women What do my cholesterol numbers mean? Cholesterol numbers are measured in milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). Here are the healthy levels of cholesterol, based on your age and gender: Anyone age 19 or younger: Type of Cholesterol Healthy Level Total Cholesterol Less than 170mg/dL Non-HDL Less than 120mg/dL LDL Less than 100mg/dL HDL More than 45mg/dL Men age 20 or older: Type of Cholesterol Healthy Level Total Cholesterol 125 to 200mg/dL Non-HDL Less than 130mg/dL LDL Less than 100mg/dL HDL 40mg/dL or higher Women age 20 or older: Type of Cholesterol Healthy Level Total Cholesterol 125 to 200mg/dL Non-HDL Less than 130mg/dL LDL Less than 100mg/dL HDL 50mg/dL or higher Triglycerides are not a type of cholesterol, but they are part of a lipoprotein panel (the test that measures cholesterol levels). A normal triglyceride level is below 150 mg/dL. You might need treatment if you have triglyceride levels that are borderline high (150-199 mg/dL) or high (200 mg/dL or more). How often should I get a cholesterol test? When and how often you should get a cholesterol test depends on your age, risk factors, and family history. The general recommendations are: For people who are age 19 or younger: The first test should be between ages 9 to 11 Children should have the test again every 5 years Some children may have this test starting at age 2 if there is a family history of high blood cholesterol, heart attack, or stroke For people who are age 20 or older: Younger adults should have the test every 5 years Men ages 45 to 65 and women ages 55 to 65 should have it every 1 to 2 years What affects my cholesterol levels? A variety of things can affect cholesterol levels. These are some things you can do to lower your cholesterol levels: Diet. Saturated fat and cholesterol in the food you eat make your blood cholesterol level rise. Saturated fat is the main problem, but cholesterol in foods also matters. Reducing the amount of saturated fat in your diet helps lower your blood cholesterol level. Foods that have high levels of saturated fats include some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods. Weight. Being overweight is a risk factor for heart disease. It also tends to increase your cholesterol. Losing weight can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglyceride levels. It also raises your HDL (good) cholesterol level. Physical Activity. Not being physically active is a risk factor for heart disease. Regular physical activity can help lower LDL (bad) cholesterol and raise HDL (good) cholesterol levels. It also helps you lose weight. You should try to be physically active for 30 minutes on most, if not all, days. Smoking. Cigarette smoking lowers your HDL (good) cholesterol. HDL helps to remove bad cholesterol from your arteries. So a lower HDL can contribute to a higher level of bad cholesterol. Things outside of your control that can also affect cholesterol levels include: Age and Sex. As women and men get older, their cholesterol levels rise. Before the age of menopause, women have lower total cholesterol levels than men of the same age. After the age of menopause, women's LDL (bad) cholesterol levels tend to rise. Heredity. Your genes partly determine how much cholesterol your body makes. High blood cholesterol can run in families. Race. Certain races may have an increased risk of high blood cholesterol. For example, African Americans typically have higher HDL and LDL cholesterol levels than whites. How can I lower my cholesterol? There are two main ways to lower your cholesterol : Heart-healthy lifestyle changes, which include: Heart-healthy eating. A heart-healthy eating plan limits the amount of saturated and trans fats that you eat. Examples include the Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet and the DASH Eating Plan . Weight Management. If you are overweight, losing weight can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Physical Activity. Everyone should get regular physical activity (30 minutes on most, if not all, days). Managing stress. Research has shown that chronic stress can sometimes raise your LDL cholesterol and lower your HDL cholesterol. Quitting smoking. Quitting smoking can raise your HDL cholesterol. Since HDL helps to remove LDL cholesterol from your arteries, having more HDL can help to lower your LDL cholesterol. Drug Treatment. If lifestyle changes alone do not lower your cholesterol enough, you may also need to take medicines. There are several types of cholesterol medicines available, including statins . The medicines work in different ways and can have different side effects. Talk to your health care provider about which one is right for you. While you are taking medicines to lower your cholesterol, you should continue with the lifestyle changes. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Cholesterol Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/cholesterolmedicines.html,"If diet and exercise don't reduce your cholesterol levels enough, you may need to take medicine. Learn about the different cholesterol medicines."," What is cholesterol? Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even block them. This puts you at risk for coronary artery disease and other heart diseases . Cholesterol travels through the blood on proteins called lipoproteins. One type, LDL , is sometimes called the ""bad"" cholesterol. A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Another type, HDL , is sometimes called the ""good"" cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your body. What are the treatments for high cholesterol? If you have high cholesterol, lifestyle changes can help you to lower your cholesterol level . But sometimes the lifestyle changes are not enough, and you need to take cholesterol medicines . You should still continue with the lifestyle changes even though you are taking medicines. Who needs cholesterol medicines? Your health care provider may prescribe medicine if: You have already had a heart attack or stroke , or you have peripheral arterial disease Your LDL (bad) cholesterol level is 190 mg/dL or higher You are 40-75 years old, you have diabetes, and your LDL cholesterol level is 70 mg/dL or higher You are 40-75 years old, you have a high risk of developing heart disease or stroke, and your LDL cholesterol level is 70 mg/dL or higher What are the different types of medicines for cholesterol? There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available, including Statins , which block the liver from making cholesterol Bile acid sequestrants, which decrease the amount of fat absorbed from food Cholesterol absorption inhibitors, which decrease the amount of cholesterol absorbed from food and lower triglycerides. Nicotinic acid (niacin), which lowers LDL (bad) cholesterol and triglycerides and raises HDL (good) cholesterol. Even though you can buy niacin without a prescription, you should talk to your health care provider before taking it to lower your cholesterol. High doses of niacin can cause serious side effects. PCSK9 inhibitors, which block a protein called PCSK9. This helps your liver remove and clear LDL cholesterol from your blood. Fibrates, which lower triglycerides. They may also raise HDL (good) cholesterol. If you take them with statins, they may increase the risk of muscle problems. Combination medicines, which include more than one type of cholesterol-lowering medicine There are also a few other cholesterol medicines (lomitapide and mipomersen) that are only for people who have familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). FH is an inherited disorder that causes high LDL cholesterol. How does my health care provider decide which cholesterol medicine I should take? When deciding which medicine you should take and which dose you need, your health care provider will consider Your cholesterol levels Your risk for heart disease and stroke Your age Any other health problems you have Possible side effects of the medicines. Higher doses are more likely to cause side effects, especially over time. Medicines can help control your cholesterol, but they don't cure it. You need to keep taking your medicines and get regular cholesterol checks to make sure that you cholesterol levels are in a healthy range."
Choosing a Doctor or Health Care Service,https://medlineplus.gov/choosingadoctororhealthcareservice.html,"We all want high-quality health care, but it's hard to know how to choose. Learn about specific things to consider when finding a doctor."," We all want high-quality health care, but it's hard to know how to choose. There are many things to consider, including What your insurance covers Whether a health care provider or service is accredited The location of a service Hours that the service is available Whether you like a health care provider's personality On this page you'll find information to help you choose a health care provider or service."
Chronic Bronchitis,https://medlineplus.gov/chronicbronchitis.html,Bronchitis is an inflammation of the airways that carry air to your lungs. Chronic bronchitis is a long-term condition. Discover symptoms and treatment.," What is chronic bronchitis? Chronic bronchitis is a type of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). COPD is a group of lung diseases that make it hard to breathe and get worse over time. The other main type of COPD is emphysema . Most people with COPD have both emphysema and chronic bronchitis, but how severe each type is can be different from person to person. Chronic bronchitis is inflammation (swelling) and irritation of the bronchial tubes. These tubes are the airways that carry air to and from the air sacs in your lungs. The irritation of the tubes causes mucus to build up. This mucus and the swelling of the tubes make it harder for your lungs to move oxygen in and carbon dioxide out of your body. What causes chronic bronchitis? The cause of chronic bronchitis is usually long-term exposure to irritants that damage your lungs and airways. In the United States, cigarette smoke is the main cause. Pipe, cigar, and other types of tobacco smoke can also cause chronic bronchitis, especially if you inhale them. Exposure to other inhaled irritants can contribute to chronic bronchitis. These include secondhand smoke , air pollution , and chemical fumes or dusts from the environment or workplace. Rarely, a genetic condition called alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency can play a role in causing chronic bronchitis. Who is at risk for chronic bronchitis? The risk factors for chronic bronchitis include Smoking. This the main risk factor. Up to 75% of people who have chronic bronchitis smoke or used to smoke. Long-term exposure to other lung irritants , such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, and chemical fumes and dusts from the environment or workplace. Age. Most people who have chronic bronchitis are at least 40 years old when their symptoms begin. Genetics. This includes alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, which is a genetic condition. Also, smokers who get chronic bronchitis are more likely to get it if they have a family history of COPD. What are the symptoms of chronic bronchitis? At first, you may have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. As the disease gets worse, your symptoms usually become more severe. They can include Frequent coughing or a cough that produces a lot mucus Wheezing A whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe Shortness of breath, especially with physical activity Tightness in your chest Some people with chronic bronchitis get frequent respiratory infections such as colds and the flu . In severe cases, chronic bronchitis can cause weight loss, weakness in your lower muscles, and swelling in your ankles, feet, or legs. How is chronic bronchitis diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history and family history Will ask about your symptoms May do lab tests, such as lung function tests , a chest x-ray or CT scan , and blood tests What are the treatments for chronic bronchitis? There is no cure for chronic bronchitis. However, treatments can help with symptoms, slow the progress of the disease, and improve your ability to stay active. There are also treatments to prevent or treat complications of the disease. Treatments include Lifestyle changes , such as Quitting smoking if you are a smoker. This is the most important step you can take to treat chronic bronchitis. Avoiding secondhand smoke and places where you might breathe in other lung irritants Ask your health care provider for an eating plan that will meet your nutritional needs. Also ask about how much physical activity you can do. Physical activity can strengthen the muscles that help you breathe and improve your overall wellness. Medicines , such as Bronchodilators, which relax the muscles around your airways. This helps open your airways and makes breathing easier. Most bronchodilators are taken through an inhaler. In more severe cases, the inhaler may also contain steroids to reduce inflammation. Vaccines for the flu and pneumococcal pneumonia, since people with chronic bronchitis are at higher risk for serious problems from these diseases. Antibiotics if you get a bacterial or viral lung infection Oxygen therapy , if you have severe chronic bronchitis and low levels of oxygen in your blood. Oxygen therapy can help you breathe better. You may need extra oxygen all the time or only at certain times. Pulmonary rehabilitation , which is a program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic breathing problems. It may include An exercise program Disease management training Nutritional counseling Psychological counseling A lung transplant , as a last resort for people who have severe symptoms that have not gotten better with medicines If you have chronic bronchitis, it's important to know when and where to get help for your symptoms. You should get emergency care if you have severe symptoms, such as trouble catching your breath or talking. Call your health care provider if your symptoms are getting worse or if you have signs of an infection, such as a fever . Can chronic bronchitis be prevented? Since smoking causes most cases of chronic bronchitis, the best way to prevent it is to not smoke. It's also important to try to avoid lung irritants such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, chemical fumes, and dusts. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/chronicfatiguesyndrome.html,If you have had six or more months of extreme debilitating fatigue you may have Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS). Read about symptoms and what can help.," What is chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)? Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a serious, long-term illness that affects many body systems. Another name for it is myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). CFS can often make you unable to do your usual activities. Sometimes you may not even be able to get out of bed. What causes chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)? The cause of CFS is unknown. There may be more than one thing that causes it. It is possible that two or more triggers might work together to cause the illness. Who is at risk for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)? Anyone can get CFS, but it is most common in people between 40 and 60 years old. Adult women have it more often that adult men. Whites are more likely than other races to get a diagnosis of CFS, but many people with CFS have not been diagnosed with it. What are the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)? CFS symptoms can include Severe fatigue that is not improved by rest Sleep problems Post-exertional malaise (PEM), where your symptoms get worse after any physical or mental activity Problems with thinking and concentrating Pain Dizziness CFS can be unpredictable. Your symptoms may come and go. They may change over time - sometimes they might get better, and other times they may get worse. How is chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) diagnosed? CFS can be difficult to diagnose. There is no specific test for CFS, and other illnesses can cause similar symptoms. Your health care provider has to rule out other diseases before making a diagnosis of CFS. He or she will do a thorough medical exam, including Asking about your medical history and your family's medical history Asking about your current illness, including your symptoms. Your doctor will want to know how often you have symptoms, how bad they are, how long they have lasted, and how they affect your life. A thorough physical and mental status exam Blood, urine, or other tests What are the treatments for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)? There is no cure or approved treatment for CFS, but you may be able to treat or manage some of your symptoms. You, your family, and your health care provider should work together to decide on a plan. You should figure out which symptom causes the most problems and try to treat that first. For example, if sleep problems affect you the most, you might first try using good sleep habits . If those do not help, you may need to take medicines or see a sleep specialist. Strategies such as learning new ways to manage activity can also be helpful. You need to make sure that you do not ""push and crash."" This can happen when you feel better, do too much, and then get worse again. Since the process of developing a treatment plan and attending to self-care can be hard if you have CFS, it is important to have support from family members and friends. Don't try any new treatments without talking to your health care provider. Some treatments that are promoted as cures for CFS are unproven, often costly, and could be dangerous. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Chronic Kidney Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/chronickidneydisease.html,"If your kidneys are damaged and can't filter blood easily, then you may suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD). Read about the treatments available"," You have two kidneys, each about the size of your fist. Their main job is to filter your blood. They remove wastes and extra water, which become urine. They also keep the body's chemicals balanced, help control blood pressure, and make hormones. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) means that your kidneys are damaged and can't filter blood as they should. This damage can cause wastes to build up in your body. It can also cause other problems that can harm your health. Diabetes and high blood pressure are the most common causes of CKD. The kidney damage occurs slowly over many years. Many people don't have any symptoms until their kidney disease is very advanced. Blood and urine tests are the only way to know if you have kidney disease. Treatments cannot cure kidney disease, but they may slow kidney disease. They include medicines to lower blood pressure , control blood sugar , and lower cholesterol . CKD may still get worse over time. Sometimes it can lead to kidney failure . If your kidneys fail, you will need dialysis or a kidney transplantation . You can take steps to keep your kidneys healthier longer: Choose foods with less salt (sodium) Control your blood pressure ; your health care provider can tell you what your blood pressure should be Keep your blood sugar in the target range, if you have diabetes Limit the amount of alcohol you drink Choose foods that are healthy for your heart: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods Lose weight if you are overweight Be physically active Don't smoke NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia,https://medlineplus.gov/chroniclymphocyticleukemia.html,"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or CLL is cancer of the white blood cells, where abnormal cells are made.  This makes it hard for the blood to do its work."," What is leukemia? Leukemia is a term for cancers of the blood cells. Leukemia starts in blood-forming tissues such as the bone marrow. Your bone marrow makes the cells which will develop into white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. Each type of cell has a different job: White blood cells help your body fight infection Red blood cells deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs Platelets help form clots to stop bleeding When you have leukemia, your bone marrow makes large numbers of abnormal cells. This problem most often happens with white blood cells. These abnormal cells build up in your bone marrow and blood. They crowd out the healthy blood cells and make it hard for your cells and blood to do their work. What is chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a type of chronic leukemia. ""Chronic"" means that the leukemia usually gets worse slowly. In CLL, the bone marrow makes abnormal lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). When the abnormal cells crowd out the healthy cells, it can lead to infection, anemia , and easy bleeding . The abnormal cells can also spread outside the blood to other parts of the body. CLL is one of the most common types of leukemia in adults. It often occurs during or after middle age. It is rare in children . What causes chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? CLL happens when there are changes in the genetic material (DNA) in bone marrow cells. The cause of these genetic changes is unknown, so it's hard to predict who might get CLL. There are a few factors that might raise your risk. Who is at risk for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? It is hard to predict who will get CLL. There are a few factors that could raise your risk: Age - your risk goes up as you get older. Most people who are diagnosed with CLL are over 50. Family history of CLL and other blood and bone marrow diseases Racial/ethnic group - CLL is more common in whites than in people from other racial or ethnic groups Exposure to certain chemicals, including Agent Orange, a chemical that was used in the Vietnam War What are the symptoms of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? In the beginning, CLL does not cause any symptoms. Later, you can have symptoms such as Swollen lymph nodes - you may notice them as painless lumps in the neck, underarm, stomach, or groin Weakness or feeling tired Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs Fever and infection Easy bruising or bleeding Petechiae, which are tiny red dots under the skin. They are caused by bleeding. Weight loss for no known reason Drenching night sweats How is chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose CLL: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC) with differential and blood chemistry tests. Blood chemistry tests measure different substances in the blood, including electrolytes, fats, proteins, glucose (sugar), and enzymes. Specific blood chemistry tests include a basic metabolic panel (BMP) , a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) , kidney function tests , liver function tests , and an electrolyte panel . Flow cytometry tests, which check for leukemia cells and identify which type of leukemia it is. The tests can be done on blood, bone marrow, or other tissue. Genetic tests to look for gene and chromosome changes If you are diagnosed with CLL, you may have additional tests to see whether the cancer has spread. These include imaging tests and bone marrow tests . What are the treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? Treatments for CLL include Watchful waiting, which means that you don't get treatment right away. Your health care provider regularly checks to see if your signs or symptoms appear or change. Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Chemotherapy Radiation therapy Immunotherapy Chemotherapy with bone marrow or stem cell transplant The goals of treatment are to slow the growth of the leukemia cells and to give you long periods of remission. Remission means that the signs and symptoms of cancer are reduced or have disappeared. The CLL may come back after remission, and you may need more treatment. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia,https://medlineplus.gov/chronicmyeloidleukemia.html,"Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a cancer of the white blood cells. It usually affects older adults. Learn about symptoms, genetics, and treatment."," What is leukemia? Leukemia is a term for cancers of the blood cells. Leukemia starts in blood-forming tissues such as the bone marrow. Your bone marrow makes the cells which will develop into white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. Each type of cell has a different job: White blood cells help your body fight infection Red blood cells deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs Platelets help form clots to stop bleeding When you have leukemia, your bone marrow makes large numbers of abnormal cells. This problem most often happens with white blood cells. These abnormal cells build up in your bone marrow and blood. They crowd out the healthy blood cells and make it hard for your cells and blood to do their work. What is chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a type of chronic leukemia. ""Chronic"" means that the leukemia usually gets worse slowly. In CML, the bone marrow makes abnormal granulocytes (a type of white blood cell). These abnormal cells are also called blasts. When the abnormal cells crowd out the healthy cells, it can lead to infection, anemia , and easy bleeding . The abnormal cells can also spread outside the blood to other parts of the body. CML usually occurs in adults during or after middle age. It is rare in children . What causes chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? Most people with CML have a genetic change called the Philadelphia chromosome. It's called that because researchers in Philadelphia discovered it. People normally have 23 pairs of chromosomes in each cell. These chromosomes contain your DNA (genetic material). In CML, part of the DNA from one chromosome moves to another chromosome. It combines with some DNA there, which creates a new gene called BCR-ABL. This gene causes your bone marrow to make an abnormal protein. This protein allows the leukemia cells to grow out of control. The Philadelphia chromosome isn't passed from parent to child. It happens during your lifetime. The cause is unknown. Who is at risk for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? It is hard to predict who will get CML. There are a few factors that could raise your risk: Age - your risk goes up as you get older Gender - CML is slightly more common in men Exposure to high-dose radiation What are the symptoms of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? Sometimes CML does not cause symptoms. If you do have symptoms, they can include Feeling very tired Weight loss for no known reason Drenching night sweats Fever Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs on the left side How is chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose CML: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC) with differential and blood chemistry tests. Blood chemistry tests measure different substances in the blood, including electrolytes, fats, proteins, glucose (sugar), and enzymes. Specific blood chemistry tests include a basic metabolic panel (BMP) , a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) , kidney function tests , liver function tests , and an electrolyte panel . Bone marrow tests . There are two main types - bone marrow aspiration and bone marrow biopsy. Both tests involve removing a sample of bone marrow and bone. The samples are sent to a lab for testing. Genetic tests to look for gene and chromosome changes, including tests to look for the Philadelphia chromosome If you are diagnosed with CML, you may have additional tests such as imaging tests to see whether the cancer has spread. What are the phases of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? CML has three phases. The phases are based on how much the CML has grown or spread: Chronic phase, where less than 10% of cells in the blood and bone marrow are blast cells (leukemia cells). Most people are diagnosed in this phase, and many do not have symptoms. Standard treatment usually helps in this phase. Accelerated phase, 10% to 19% of the cells in the blood and bone marrow are blast cells. In this phase, people often have symptoms and standard treatment may not be as effective as in the chronic phase. Blastic phase, where 20% or more of the cells in the blood or bone marrow are blast cells. The blast cells have spread to other tissues and organs. If you have tiredness, fever, and an enlarged spleen during the blastic phase, it is called a blast crisis. This phase is harder to treat. What are the treatments for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? There are several different treatments for CML: Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. For CML, the drugs are tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). They block tyrosine kinase, which is an enzyme that causes your bone marrow to make too many blasts. Chemotherapy Immunotherapy High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI). DLI is a treatment that may be used after a stem cell transplant. It involves giving you an infusion (into your bloodstream) of healthy lymphocytes from the stem cell transplant donor. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. These donor lymphocytes may kill the remaining cancer cells. Surgery to remove the spleen (splenectomy) Which treatments you get will depend on which phase you are in, your age, your overall health, and other factors. When the signs and symptoms of CML are reduced or have disappeared, it is called remission. The CML may come back after remission, and you may need more treatment. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Chronic Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/chronicpain.html,"Experiencing ongoing pain is called chronic pain. While chronic pain cannot be cured, there are treatments that can help manage and reduce."," Pain is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be sharp or dull. You may feel pain in one area of your body, or all over. There are two types: acute pain and chronic pain. Acute pain lets you know that you may be injured or a have problem you need to take care of. Chronic pain is different. The pain may last for weeks, months, or even years. The original cause may have been an injury or infection. There may be an ongoing cause of pain, such as arthritis or cancer. In some cases there is no clear cause. Environmental and psychological factors can make chronic pain worse. Many older adults have chronic pain. Women also report having more chronic pain than men, and they are at a greater risk for many pain conditions. Some people have two or more chronic pain conditions. Chronic pain is not always curable, but treatments can help. There are drug treatments, including pain relievers . There are also non-drug treatments , such as acupuncture , physical therapy, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Circumcision,https://medlineplus.gov/circumcision.html,"Circumcision is the removal of the foreskin, the skin that covers the tip of the penis. Read about the medical benefits and risks to circumcision."," What is circumcision? Circumcision is a surgical procedure to remove the foreskin, the skin that covers the tip of the penis. In the United States, it is often done before a new baby leaves the hospital. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), there are medical benefits and risks to circumcision. What are the medical benefits of circumcision? The possible medical benefits of circumcision include A lower risk of HIV A slightly lower risk of other sexually transmitted diseases A slightly lower risk of urinary tract infections and penile cancer. However, these are both rare in all males. What are the risks of circumcision? The risks of circumcision include A low risk of bleeding or infection Pain. AAP suggests that providers use pain medicines to reduce pain from circumcision. What are the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommendations on circumcision? The AAP does not recommend routine circumcision. However, they said that because of the possible benefits, parents should have the option to circumcise their sons if they want to. They recommend that parents discuss circumcision with their baby's health care provider. Parents should make their decision based on the benefits and risks, as well as their own religious, cultural, and personal preferences."
Cirrhosis,https://medlineplus.gov/cirrhosis.html,Cirrhosis is caused when scar tissue replaces healthy tissue in the liver because of chronic injury. Learn how cirrhosis is diagnosed and treated.," Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver. Scar tissue forms because of injury or long-term disease. Scar tissue cannot do what healthy liver tissue does - make protein, help fight infections, clean the blood, help digest food and store energy. Cirrhosis can lead to Easy bruising or bleeding, or nosebleeds Swelling of the abdomen or legs Extra sensitivity to medicines High blood pressure in the vein entering the liver Enlarged veins called varices in the esophagus and stomach. Varices can bleed suddenly. Kidney failure Jaundice Severe itching Gallstones A small number of people with cirrhosis get liver cancer . Your doctor will diagnose cirrhosis with blood tests, imaging tests, or a biopsy. Cirrhosis has many causes. In the United States, the most common causes are chronic alcoholism and hepatitis . Nothing will make the scar tissue disappear, but treating the cause can keep it from getting worse. If too much scar tissue forms, you may need to consider a liver transplant . NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
"Cleaning, Disinfecting, and Sanitizing",https://medlineplus.gov/cleaningdisinfectingandsanitizing.html,"To avoid becoming infected by germs from surfaces and objects, it is important to wash your hands often. Its also important to regularly clean and disinfect surfaces and objects. Learn the difference between cleaning, disinfecting and sanitizing."," Where are germs found? Germs are a part of everyday life. Some of them are helpful, but others are harmful and cause disease. They can be found everywhere - in our air, soil, and water. They are on our skin and in our bodies. Germs are also on the surfaces and objects that we touch. Sometimes those germs can spread to you and make you sick. For example, there could be germs on a tv remote. You could get infected with the germs if you touch the remote and then rub your eyes or nose or eat with your hands. How can I avoid getting germs from surfaces and objects? To avoid becoming infected by germs from surfaces and objects, it is important to wash your hands often . But you can't wash your hands every time you touch something. So it's also important to regularly clean and disinfect surfaces and objects. What is the difference between cleaning, sanitizing, and disinfecting? Some people think that disinfecting is same thing as cleaning or sanitizing. But they are actually different: Cleaning removes dirt, dust, crumbs, and germs from surfaces or objects. When you clean, you will likely use soap (or detergent) and water to physically clean off the surfaces and objects. This may not necessarily kill the germs. But since you removed some of them, there are fewer germs that could spread infection to you. Disinfecting uses chemicals (disinfectants) to kill germs on surfaces and objects. Some common disinfectants are bleach and alcohol solutions. You usually need to leave the disinfectant on the surfaces and objects for a certain period of time to kill the germs. Disinfecting does not necessarily clean dirty surfaces or remove germs. Sanitizing could be done by either cleaning, disinfecting, or both. Sanitizing means that you are lowering the number of germs to a safe level. What is considered a safe level depends on public health standards or requirements at a workplace, school, etc. For example, there are sanitizing procedures for restaurants and other facilities that prepare food. What you do to sanitize will vary, depending on your needs. You might be mopping a floor using a mop, a chemical, and water. You might use a dishwasher to sanitize the dishes. Or you could be using an antibacterial wipe on a tv remote. If you both clean and disinfect a surface or object, you can further lower the risk of spreading infection. There are products that clean and disinfect at the same time. Which surfaces and objects do I need to clean and disinfect? To prevent the spread of infection, you should regularly clean and disinfect surfaces and objects that are touched often. For example, in your house, this would include countertops, doorknobs, faucet and toilet handles, light switches, remotes, and toys. How can I safely clean and disinfect? It's important to be safe when using cleaning and disinfecting products: Store them in the containers they came in. Always follow the instructions and pay attention to the warnings on the label. Do not mix cleaners and disinfectants unless the labels say that it is safe to do so. Combining certain products (such as chlorine bleach and ammonia cleaners) can cause serious injury or even death. Check the label to see whether you need to use gloves to protect your hands and/or eye protection when using the products If you swallow, inhale, or get them on your skin , follow the directions on the label or get medical help Store them out of the reach of children"
Cleft Lip and Palate,https://medlineplus.gov/cleftlipandpalate.html,During early pregnancy stages your child may develop cleft lip or cleft palate. Find out when you should have surgery to fix the cleft lip and palate.," Cleft lip and cleft palate are birth defects that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both. A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip. Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the ""palate."" With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open. Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth. Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Climate Change,https://medlineplus.gov/climatechange.html,"Climate change is more than global warming.  It's major change in temperature, rainfall, snow, or wind patterns. Read how it can affect your health."," Climate is the average weather in a place over a period of time. Climate change is major change in temperature, rainfall, snow, or wind patterns lasting for many years. It can be caused by natural factors or by human activities. Today climate changes are occurring at an increasingly rapid rate. Climate change can affect our health. It can lead to More heat-related illness and deaths More pollen, mold, and air pollution . This can cause an increase in allergies, asthma, and breathing problems. Mosquitoes and other insects that carry diseases spreading to areas that used to be too cold for them. More floods and rising sea levels. This can cause an increase in contamination of food and water. More extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and wildfires . These can cause death, injuries, stress, and mental health problems. Researchers are studying the best ways to lessen climate change and reduce its impact on our health. NIH: National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences"
Clinical Trials,https://medlineplus.gov/clinicaltrials.html,Did you ever wonder how doctors find out if a treatment is effective? Clinical trials test how well new medical approaches work in people. Read more.," Clinical trials are research studies that test how well new medical approaches work in people. Each study answers scientific questions and tries to find better ways to prevent, screen for, diagnose, or treat a disease. Clinical trials may also compare a new treatment to a treatment that is already available. Every clinical trial has a protocol, or action plan, for conducting the trial. The plan describes what will be done in the study, how it will be conducted, and why each part of the study is necessary. Each study has its own rules about who can take part. Some studies need volunteers with a certain disease. Some need healthy people. Others want just men or just women. An Institutional Review Board (IRB) reviews, monitors, and approves many clinical trials. It is an independent committee of physicians, statisticians, and members of the community. Its role is to Make sure that the study is ethical Protect the rights and welfare of the participants Make sure that the risks are reasonable when compared to the potential benefits In the United States, a clinical trial must have an IRB if it is studying a drug, biological product, or medical device that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates, or it is funded or carried out by the federal government. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Cloning,https://medlineplus.gov/cloning.html,"Cloning is the process of creating an exact genetic replica of a cell, tissue or organism. Learn about the types and uses in medicine."," Cloning describes the processes used to create an exact genetic replica of another cell, tissue or organism. The copied material, which has the same genetic makeup as the original, is referred to as a clone. The most famous clone was a Scottish sheep named Dolly. There are three different types of cloning: Gene cloning, which creates copies of genes or segments of DNA Reproductive cloning, which creates copies of whole animals Therapeutic cloning, which creates embryonic stem cells . Researchers hope to use these cells to grow healthy tissue to replace injured or diseased tissues in the human body. NIH: National Human Genome Research Institute"
Club Drugs,https://medlineplus.gov/clubdrugs.html,"Club drugs are group of psychoactive drugs popular at bars, night clubs, and raves. They include MDMA (Ecstasy), GHB, and others. Learn more."," What are club drugs? Club drugs are group of psychoactive drugs. They act on the central nervous system and can cause changes in mood, awareness, and behavior. These drugs are most often used by young adults at bars, concerts, nightclubs, and parties. Club drugs, like most drugs, have nicknames that change over time or are different in different areas of the country. What are the different types of club drugs? The most commonly used types of club drugs include MDMA (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine), also called Ecstasy and Molly GHB (Gamma-hydroxybutyrate), also known as G and Liquid Ecstasy Ketamine, also known as Special K and K Rohypnol, also known as Roofies Methamphetamine , also known as Speed, Ice, and, Meth LSD (Lysergic Acid Diethylamide), also known as Acid Some of these drugs are approved for certain medical uses. Other uses of these drugs are misuse. What are date rape drugs? Date rape drugs are any type of drug or alcohol used to make sexual assault easier. Someone could put one in your drink when you are not looking. Or you may be drinking alcohol or taking a drug, and a person may make it stronger without you knowing. Club drugs are also sometimes used as ""date rape"" drugs. These drugs are very powerful. They can affect you very quickly, and you might not know that something is wrong. The length of time that the effects last varies. It depends on how much of the drug is in your body and if the drug is mixed with other drugs or alcohol. Alcohol can make the effects of drugs even stronger and can cause serious health problems - even death. Are there steps I can take to protect myself from date rape drugs? To try to avoid date rape drugs, Never leave your drink unattended Don't accept drinks from other people If drinking from a can or bottle, open your drink yourself Look out for your friends, and ask them to look out for you"
Cocaine,https://medlineplus.gov/cocaine.html,"Cocaine, also called crack cocaine, is a highly addictive stimulant. It can be snorted, injected, or smoked. Learn about health effects and treatment."," Cocaine is a white powder. It can be snorted up the nose or mixed with water and injected with a needle. Cocaine can also be made into small white rocks, called crack. Crack is smoked in a small glass pipe. Cocaine speeds up your whole body. You may feel full of energy, happy, and excited. But then your mood can change. You can become angry, nervous, and afraid that someone's out to get you. You might do things that make no sense. After the ""high"" of the cocaine wears off, you can ""crash"" and feel tired and sad for days. You also get a strong craving to take the drug again to try to feel better. No matter how cocaine is taken, it is dangerous. Some of the most common serious problems include heart attack and stroke. You are also at risk for HIV/AIDS and hepatitis, from sharing needles or having unsafe sex. Cocaine is more dangerous when combined with other drugs or alcohol. It is easy to lose control over cocaine use and become addicted. Then, even if you get treatment, it can be hard to stay off the drug. People who stopped using cocaine can still feel strong cravings for the drug, sometimes even years later. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Cochlear Implants,https://medlineplus.gov/cochlearimplants.html,A cochlear implant can help individuals who are severely hard of hearing or deaf. A cochlear implant does not restore normal hearing.," A cochlear implant is a small, complex electronic device that can help to provide a sense of sound. People who are profoundly deaf or severely hard-of-hearing can get help from them. The implant consists of two parts. One part sits on the outside of the body, behind the ear. A second part is surgically placed under the skin. An implant does not restore normal hearing. It can help a person understand speech. Children and adults can benefit from them. National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Cold and Cough Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/coldandcoughmedicines.html,"There are lots of different cold and cough medicines, and they do different things. Learn about different remedies and when you should take them."," Sneezing, sore throat, a stuffy nose, coughing -- everyone knows the symptoms of the common cold . It is probably the most common illness. Every year, adults get about 2-3 colds, and children get even more. What can you do for your cold or cough symptoms? Besides drinking lots of fluids and getting plenty of rest, you may decide to take medicines. There are lots of different cold and cough medicines, and they do different things. Nasal decongestants - unclog a stuffy nose Cough suppressants - quiet a cough Expectorants - loosen mucus so you can cough it up Antihistamines - stop runny noses and sneezing Pain relievers - ease fever, headaches, and minor aches and pains Before taking these medicines, read the labels carefully. Many cold and cough medicines contain the same active ingredients. For example, taking too much of certain pain relievers can lead to serious injury. Do not give cold or cough medicines to children under four, and don't give aspirin to children. Finally, antibiotics won't help a cold. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Cold Sores,https://medlineplus.gov/coldsores.html,"Learn about types of herpes simplex. Type 1 causes cold sores, fever blisters or oral herpes. Type 2 affects the genital area. Read about symptoms."," Cold sores are caused by a contagious virus called herpes simplex virus (HSV). There are two types of HSV. Type 1 usually causes oral herpes, or cold sores. Type 1 herpes virus infects more than half of the U.S. population by the time they reach their 20s. Type 2 usually affects the genital area . Some people have no symptoms from the infection. But others develop painful and unsightly cold sores. Cold sores usually occur outside the mouth, on or around the lips. When they are inside the mouth, they are usually on the gums or the roof of the mouth. They are not the same as canker sores , which are not contagious. There is no cure for cold sores. They normally go away on their own in a few weeks. Antiviral medicines can help them heal faster. They can also help to prevent cold sores in people who often get them. Other medicines can help with the pain and discomfort of the sores. These include ointments that numb the blisters, soften the crusts of the sores, or dry them out. Protecting your lips from the sun with sunblock lip balm can also help."
Collapsed Lung,https://medlineplus.gov/collapsedlung.html,"There are two types of collapsed lung: pneumothorax (a total collapse) and atelectasis (partial collapse). Learn the symptoms, causes, and treatment."," A collapsed lung happens when air enters the pleural space, the area between the lung and the chest wall. If it is a total collapse, it is called pneumothorax. If only part of the lung is affected, it is called atelectasis. Causes of a collapsed lung include Lung diseases such as pneumonia or lung cancer Being on a breathing machine Surgery on the chest or abdomen A blocked airway If only a small area of the lung is affected, you may not have symptoms. If a large area is affected, you may feel short of breath and have a rapid heart rate. A chest x-ray can tell if you have it. Treatment depends on the underlying cause. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
College Health,https://medlineplus.gov/collegehealth.html,"College can bring excitement, challenges, and new responsibility.  Learn what steps students can take to stay healthy and safe in college."," College life involves excitement, along with new challenges, risks, and responsibilities. You are meeting new people, learning new things, and making your own decisions. It can sometimes be stressful. You have to deal with pressures related to food, drink, appearance, drugs, and sexual activity. There are steps you can take to stay healthy and safe while you're in college: Eat a balanced diet Get enough sleep Get regular physical activity Maintain your health with checkups and vaccinations If you decide to have sex, practice safe sex Make smart choices about alcohol and drugs Get help if you are stressed or depressed Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Colonic Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/colonicdiseases.html,"Diseases of the large intestine can affect your colon's ability to work properly. See how diet, medicines, and in some cases surgery can help."," Your colon, also known as the large intestine, is part of your digestive system. It's a long, hollow tube at the end of your digestive tract where your body makes and stores stool. Many disorders affect the colon's ability to work properly. Some of these include Colorectal cancer Colonic polyps - extra tissue growing in the colon that can become cancerous Ulcerative colitis - ulcers of the colon and rectum Diverticulitis - inflammation or infection of pouches in the colon Irritable bowel syndrome - an uncomfortable condition causing abdominal cramping and other symptoms Treatment for colonic diseases varies greatly depending on the disease and its severity. Treatment may involve diet, medicines and in some cases, surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Colonic Polyps,https://medlineplus.gov/colonicpolyps.html,Colorectal polyps are extra clumps of tissue that grow in the colon. Some polyps can become cancerous but most are not. Details on several types here.," A polyp is an extra piece of tissue that grows inside your body. Colonic polyps grow in the large intestine, or colon. Most polyps are not dangerous. However, some polyps may turn into cancer or already be cancer. To be safe, doctors remove polyps and test them. Polyps can be removed when a doctor examines the inside of the large intestine during a colonoscopy . Anyone can get polyps, but certain people are more likely than others. You may have a greater chance of getting polyps if you Are over age 50 Have had polyps before Have a family member with polyps Have a family history of colon cancer Most colon polyps do not cause symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include blood on your underwear or on toilet paper after a bowel movement, blood in your stool, or constipation or diarrhea lasting more than a week. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Colonoscopy,https://medlineplus.gov/colonoscopy.html,"A colonoscopy is an exam of the colon and rectum using a tiny camera to search for polyps, cancer or other diseases. Follow these tips to prepare."," Colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy are procedures that let your doctor look inside your large intestine. They use instruments called scopes. Scopes have a tiny camera attached to a long, thin tube. The procedures let your doctor see things such as inflamed tissue, abnormal growths, and ulcers. Colonoscopy checks your entire colon and rectum. Sigmoidoscopy checks the rectum and the lower colon only. Your doctor may recommend one of these procedures To look for early signs of cancer in the colon and rectum . It may be part of a routine screening, which usually starts at age 50. To look for causes of unexplained changes in bowel habits To evaluate symptoms like abdominal pain, rectal bleeding , and weight loss Your doctor can also remove polyps from your colon during these procedures. You will get written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the procedure. The bowel prep cleans out the intestine so your doctor can see everything clearly. During a colonoscopy, you get medicines to keep you relaxed. You usually do not need them for a sigmoidoscopy. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Color Blindness,https://medlineplus.gov/colorblindness.html,"If you have color blindness, you can't see the difference between certain colors. It is more common in men. Learn about genetics and how to adjust."," Most of us see our world in color. We enjoy looking at a lush green lawn or a red rose in full bloom. If you have a color vision defect, you may see these colors differently than most people. There are three main kinds of color vision defects. Red-green color vision defects are the most common. This type occurs in men more than in women. The other major types are blue-yellow color vision defects and a complete absence of color vision. Most of the time, color blindness is genetic. There is no treatment, but most people adjust and the condition doesn't limit their activities."
Colorectal Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/colorectalcancer.html,"Risk for colon cancer increases after age 50. Screening is important and includes colonoscopy. Learn about symptoms, risk factors, tests, and treatments."," The colon and rectum are part of the large intestine. Colorectal cancer occurs when tumors form in the lining of the large intestine. It is common in both men and women. The risk of developing colorectal cancer rises after age 50. You're also more likely to get it if you have colorectal polyps , a family history of colorectal cancer, ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease , eat a diet high in fat, or smoke. Symptoms of colorectal cancer include Diarrhea or constipation A feeling that your bowel does not empty completely Blood (either bright red or very dark) in your stool Stools that are narrower than usual Frequent gas pains or cramps, or feeling full or bloated Weight loss with no known reason Fatigue Nausea or vomiting Because you may not have symptoms at first, it's important to have screening tests. Everyone over 50 should get screened. Tests include colonoscopy and tests for blood in the stool. Treatments for colorectal cancer include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, or a combination. Surgery can usually cure it when it is found early. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Coma,https://medlineplus.gov/coma.html,"Coma is a state of unconsciousness, where one is alive but cannot move or respond. Outcome depends on the cause, severity, and site of the damage. "," A coma is a deep state of unconsciousness. An individual in a coma is alive but unable to move or respond to his or her environment. Coma may occur as a complication of an underlying illness, or as a result of injuries, such as brain injury . A coma rarely lasts more than 2 to 4 weeks. The outcome for coma depends on the cause, severity, and site of the damage. People may come out of a coma with physical, intellectual, and psychological problems. Some people may remain in a coma for years or even decades. For those people, the most common cause of death is infection, such as pneumonia. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Common Cold,https://medlineplus.gov/commoncold.html,Common cold symptoms usually begin 2 or 3 days after infection and last 2 to 14 days. There is no cure for the common cold. Learn tips for relief. ," Sneezing, sore throat , a stuffy nose, coughing - everyone knows the symptoms of the common cold. It is probably the most common illness. In the course of a year, people in the United States suffer 1 billion colds. You can get a cold by touching your eyes or nose after you touch surfaces with cold germs on them. You can also inhale the germs. Symptoms usually begin 2 or 3 days after infection and last 2 to 14 days. Washing your hands and staying away from people with colds will help you avoid colds. There is no cure for the common cold. But there are treatments that can make you feel better while you wait for the cold to go away on its own: Getting plenty of rest Drinking fluids Gargling with warm salt water Using cough drops or throat sprays Taking over-the-counter pain or cold medicines However, do not give aspirin to children. And do not give cough medicine to children under four."
Common Infant and Newborn Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/commoninfantandnewbornproblems.html,"It is hard when your baby is sick, many problems are not serious. Learn about how to help your baby, and warning signs for more serious issues."," It is hard when your baby is sick. Common health problems in babies include colds, coughs, fevers, and vomiting. Babies also commonly have skin problems, like diaper rash or cradle cap . Many of these problems are not serious. It is important to know how to help your sick baby, and to know the warning signs for more serious problems. Trust your intuition - if you are worried about your baby, call your health care provider right away."
Complementary and Integrative Medicine,https://medlineplus.gov/complementaryandintegrativemedicine.html,"Complementary and Integrative Medicine, also called alternative medicine includes treatments that are not part of mainstream medicine. Read more."," Many Americans use medical treatments that are not part of mainstream medicine. When you are using these types of care, it may be called complementary, integrative, or alternative medicine. Complementary medicine is used together with mainstream medical care. An example is using acupuncture to help with side effects of cancer treatment. When health care providers and facilities offer both types of care, it is called integrative medicine. Alternative medicine is used instead of mainstream medical care. The claims that non-mainstream practitioners make can sound promising. However, researchers do not know how safe many of these treatments are or how well they work. Studies are underway to determine the safety and usefulness of many of these practices. To minimize the health risks of a non-mainstream treatment Discuss it with your doctor. It might have side effects or interact with other medicines. Find out what the research says about it Choose practitioners carefully Tell all of your doctors and practitioners about all of the different types of treatments you use NIH: National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health"
Complex Regional Pain Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/complexregionalpainsyndrome.html,"Complex regional pain syndrome, CRPS or Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy, RSD are chronic pain conditions. They cause intense pain and can spread."," Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a chronic pain condition. It causes intense pain, usually in the arms, hands, legs, or feet. It may happen after an injury, either to a nerve or to tissue in the affected area. Rest and time may only make it worse. Symptoms in the affected area are Dramatic changes in skin temperature, color, or texture Intense burning pain Extreme skin sensitivity Swelling and stiffness in affected joints Decreased ability to move the affected body part The cause of CRPS is unknown. There is no specific diagnostic test. Your doctor will diagnose CRPS based on your signs and symptoms. There is no cure. It can get worse over time, and may spread to other parts of the body. Occasionally the symptoms go away, either temporarily or for good. Treatment focuses on relieving the pain, and can include medicines, physical therapy, and nerve blocks. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Compulsive Gambling,https://medlineplus.gov/compulsivegambling.html,"Many people enjoy gambling, but some lose control. If you think you might have a gambling addiction, talk to your health care provider for help."," Many people enjoy gambling, whether it's betting on a horse or playing poker on the Internet. Most people who gamble don't have a problem, but some lose control of their gambling. Signs of problem gambling include Always thinking about gambling Lying about gambling Spending work or family time gambling Feeling bad after you gamble, but not quitting Gambling with money you need for other things If you have concerns about your gambling, ask for help. Your health care provider can work with you to find the treatment that's best for you. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Concussion,https://medlineplus.gov/concussion.html,"Concussion, a minor injury to the brain due to a blow or hit to the head. Symptoms may not show up right away. Learn when to see your doctor."," A concussion is a type of brain injury . It involves a short loss of normal brain function. It happens when a hit to the head or body causes your head and brain to move rapidly back and forth. This sudden movement can cause the brain to bounce around or twist in the skull, creating chemical changes in your brain. Sometimes it can also stretch and damage your brain cells. Sometimes people call a concussion a ""mild"" brain injury. It is important to understand that while concussions may not be life-threatening, they can still be serious. Concussions are a common type of sports injury . Other causes of concussions include blows to the head, bumping your head when you fall, being violently shaken, and car accidents. Symptoms of a concussion may not start right away; they may start days or weeks after the injury. Symptoms may include a headache or neck pain. You may also have nausea, ringing in your ears, dizziness, or tiredness. You may feel dazed or not your normal self for several days or weeks after the injury. Consult your health care professional if any of your symptoms get worse, or if you have more serious symptoms such as Convulsions or seizures Drowsiness or inability to wake up A headache that gets worse and does not go away Weakness, numbness, or decreased coordination Repeated vomiting or nausea Confusion Slurred speech Loss of consciousness To diagnose a concussion, your health care provider will do a physical exam and will ask about your injury. You will most likely have a neurological exam, which checks your vision, balance, coordination, and reflexes. Your health care provider may also evaluate your memory and thinking. In some cases, you may also have a scan of the brain, such as a CT scan or an MRI . A scan can check for bleeding or inflammation in the brain, as well as a skull fracture (break in the skull). Most people recover fully after a concussion, but it can take some time. Rest is very important after a concussion because it helps the brain to heal. In the very beginning, you may need to limit physical activities or activities that involve a lot of concentration, such as studying, working on the computer, or playing video games. Doing these may cause concussion symptoms (such as headache or tiredness) to come back or get worse. Then when your health care provider says that it is ok, you can start to return to your normal activities slowly. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Congenital Heart Defects,https://medlineplus.gov/congenitalheartdefects.html,"Congenital heart defects, problems with the structure of the heart, are the most common type of birth defect. Learn about diagnosis and treatment."," A congenital heart defect is a problem with the structure of the heart. It is present at birth. Congenital heart defects are the most common type of birth defect. The defects can involve the walls of the heart, the valves of the heart, and the arteries and veins near the heart. They can disrupt the normal flow of blood through the heart. The blood flow can slow down, go in the wrong direction or to the wrong place, or be blocked completely. Doctors use a physical exam and special heart tests to diagnose congenital heart defects. They often find severe defects during pregnancy or soon after birth. Signs and symptoms of severe defects in newborns include Rapid breathing Cyanosis - a bluish tint to the skin, lips, and fingernails Fatigue Poor blood circulation Many congenital heart defects cause few or no signs and symptoms. They are often not diagnosed until children are older. Many children with congenital heart defects don't need treatment, but others do. Treatment can include medicines, catheter procedures, surgery, and heart transplants. The treatment depends on the type of the defect, how severe it is, and a child's age, size, and general health. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Connective Tissue Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/connectivetissuedisorders.html,"There are over 200 disorders that affect connective tissues. Examples include cellulitis, scars, and osteogenesis imperfecta. Learn more."," Your connective tissue supports many different parts of your body, such as your skin, eyes, and heart. It is like a ""cellular glue"" that gives your body parts their shape and helps keep them strong. It also helps some of your tissues do their work. It is made of many kinds of proteins. Cartilage and fat are types of connective tissue. Over 200 disorders that impact connective tissue. There are different types: Genetic disorders, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome , Marfan syndrome , and osteogenesis imperfecta Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus and scleroderma Cancers, like some types of soft tissue sarcoma Each disorder has its own symptoms and needs different treatment. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Constipation,https://medlineplus.gov/constipation.html,"Feeling ""backed-up"" or like you need to ""go"" but just can't? Read some of the reasons why this could be happening and learn some prevention tips."," Constipation means that a person has three or fewer bowel movements in a week. The stool can be hard and dry. Sometimes it is painful to pass. At one time or another, almost everyone gets constipated. In most cases, it lasts a short time and is not serious. There are many things you can do to prevent constipation. They include Eating more fruits, vegetables and grains, which are high in fiber Drinking plenty of water and other liquids Getting enough exercise Taking time to have a bowel movement when you need to Using laxatives only if your doctor says you should Asking your doctor if medicines you take may cause constipation It's not important that you have a bowel movement every day. If your bowel habits change, however, check with your doctor. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
COPD,https://medlineplus.gov/copd.html,"COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) makes it hard for you to breathe. At first symptoms are mild, but usually become more severe. Learn more."," What is COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)? COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) is a group of lung diseases that make it hard to breathe and get worse over time. Normally, the airways and air sacs in your lungs are elastic or stretchy. When you breathe in, the airways bring air to the air sacs. The air sacs fill up with air, like a small balloon. When you breathe out, the air sacs deflate, and the air goes out. If you have COPD, less air flows in and out of your airways because of one or more problems: The airways and air sacs in your lungs become less elastic The walls between many of the air sacs are destroyed The walls of the airways become thick and inflamed The airways make more mucus than usual and can become clogged What are the types of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)? COPD includes two main types: Emphysema affects the air sacs in your lungs, as well as the walls between them. They become damaged and are less elastic. Chronic bronchitis , in which the lining of your airways is constantly irritated and inflamed. This causes the lining to swell and make mucus. Most people with COPD have both emphysema and chronic bronchitis, but how severe each type is can be different from person to person. What causes COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)? The cause of COPD is usually long-term exposure to irritants that damage your lungs and airways. In the United States, cigarette smoke is the main cause. Pipe, cigar, and other types of tobacco smoke can also cause COPD, especially if you inhale them. Exposure to other inhaled irritants can contribute to COPD. These include secondhand smoke , air pollution , and chemical fumes or dusts from the environment or workplace. Rarely, a genetic condition called alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency can play a role in causing COPD. Who is at risk for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)? The risk factors for COPD include Smoking. This the main risk factor. Up to 75% of people who have COPD smoke or used to smoke. Long-term exposure to other lung irritants , such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, and chemical fumes and dusts from the environment or workplace Age. Most people who have COPD are at least 40 years old when their symptoms begin. Genetics. This includes alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, which is a genetic condition. Also, smokers who get COPD are more likely to get it if they have a family history of COPD. What are the symptoms of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)? At first, you may have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. As the disease gets worse, your symptoms usually become more severe. They can include Frequent coughing or a cough that produces a lot mucus Wheezing A whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe Shortness of breath, especially with physical activity Tightness in your chest Some people with COPD get frequent respiratory infections such as colds and the flu . In severe cases, COPD can cause weight loss, weakness in your lower muscles, and swelling in your ankles, feet, or legs. How is COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history and family history Will ask about your symptoms May do lab tests, such as lung function tests , a chest x-ray or CT scan , and blood tests Your doctor will diagnose COPD based on your signs and symptoms, your medical and family histories, and test results. What are the treatments for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)? There is no cure for COPD. However, treatments can help with symptoms, slow the progress of the disease, and improve your ability to stay active. There are also treatments to prevent or treat complications of the disease. Treatments include Lifestyle changes , such as Quitting smoking if you are a smoker. This is the most important step you can take to treat COPD. Avoiding secondhand smoke and places where you might breathe in other lung irritants Ask your health care provider for an eating plan that will meet your nutritional needs. Also ask about how much physical activity you can do. Physical activity can strengthen the muscles that help you breathe and improve your overall wellness. Medicines , such as Bronchodilators, which relax the muscles around your airways. This helps open your airways and makes breathing easier. Most bronchodilators are taken through an inhaler. In more severe cases, the inhaler may also contain steroids to reduce inflammation. Vaccines for the flu and pneumococcal pneumonia, since people with COPD are at higher risk for serious problems from these diseases Antibiotics if you get a bacterial or viral lung infection Oxygen therapy , if you have severe COPD and low levels of oxygen in your blood. Oxygen therapy can help you breathe better. You may need extra oxygen all the time or only at certain times. Pulmonary rehabilitation , which is a program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic breathing problems. It may include An exercise program Disease management training Nutritional counseling Psychological counseling Surgery , usually as a last resort for people who have severe symptoms that have not gotten better with medicines: For COPD that is mainly related to emphysema, there are surgeries that Remove damaged lung tissue Remove large air spaces (bullae) that can form when air sacs are destroyed. The bullae can interfere with breathing. For severe COPD, some people may need lung transplant If you have COPD, it's important to know when and where to get help for your symptoms. You should get emergency care if you have severe symptoms, such as trouble catching your breath or talking. Call your health care provider if your symptoms are getting worse or if you have signs of an infection, such as a fever . Can COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) be prevented? Since smoking causes most cases of COPD, the best way to prevent it is to not smoke. It's also important to try to avoid lung irritants such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, chemical fumes, and dusts. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Coping with Chronic Illness,https://medlineplus.gov/copingwithchronicillness.html,"Chronic illness can cause stress, anxiety, and anger. It is important to seek help and regain control. Learn about coping with chronic illness."," Having a long-term, or chronic, illness can disrupt your life in many ways. You may often be tired and in pain . Your illness might affect your appearance or your physical abilities and independence. You may not be able to work, causing financial problems. For children, chronic illnesses can be frightening, because they may not understand why this is happening to them. These changes can cause stress, anxiety, and anger. If they do, it is important to seek help. A trained counselor can help you develop strategies to regain a feeling of control. Support groups might help, too. You will find that you are not alone, and you may learn some new tips on how to cope. You may be able to manage your illness better if learn more about it. It is important to evaluate the information that you find, to make sure that it is reliable. It is also important to find a health care provider that you can trust."
Coping with Disasters,https://medlineplus.gov/copingwithdisasters.html,"No matter how well you prepared, you might feel dazed or numb after going through a disaster.Seek help if the reaction gets in the way of your life."," No matter how well you have prepared , you might feel dazed or numb after going through a disaster. You may also feel sad, helpless, or anxious. In spite of the tragedy, you might just feel happy to be alive. It is not unusual to have bad memories or dreams. You may avoid places or people that remind you of the disaster. You might have trouble sleeping, eating, or paying attention. Many people have short tempers and get angry easily. These are all normal reactions to stress . Sometimes the stress can be too much to handle alone. Some people have long-term problems after a disaster, including Post-traumatic stress disorder Depression Self-blame Suicidal thoughts Alcohol or drug misuse If your emotional reactions are getting in the way of your relationships, work, or other important activities, talk to a counselor or your health care provider. Treatments are available. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Corneal Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/cornealdisorders.html,"The cornea is a clear layer that covers the front of the eye. It helps the eye focus, and keeps out germs and dust. Read about diseases of the cornea."," Your cornea is the outermost layer of your eye. It is clear and shaped like a dome. The cornea helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. It also helps your eye to focus. If you wear contact lenses, they float on top of your corneas. Problems with the cornea include Refractive errors Allergies Infections Injuries Dystrophies - conditions in which parts of the cornea lose clarity due to a buildup of cloudy material Treatments of corneal disorders include medicines, corneal transplantation, and corneal laser surgery. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Corns and Calluses,https://medlineplus.gov/cornsandcalluses.html,"Corns and calluses are areas of thick skin, usually on the hands and feet. They happen because of repeated pressure or friction. Read about treatment."," Corns and calluses are caused by pressure or friction on your skin. They often appear on feet where the bony parts of your feet rub against your shoes. Corns usually appear on the tops or sides of toes while calluses form on the soles of feet. Calluses also can appear on hands or other areas that are rubbed or pressed. Wearing shoes that fit better or using non-medicated pads may help. While bathing, gently rub the corn or callus with a washcloth or pumice stone to help reduce the size. To avoid infection, do not try to shave off the corn or callus. See your doctor, especially if you have diabetes or circulation problems. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/coronaryarterybypasssurgery.html,"Learn about coronary artery bypass surgery (or graft, CABG). It uses blood vessels from other areas of the body to bypass narrowed heart arteries."," In coronary artery disease (CAD), the arteries that supply blood and oxygen to your heart muscle grow hardened and narrowed. You may try treatments such as lifestyle changes, medicines, and angioplasty , a procedure to open the arteries. If these treatments don't help, you may need coronary artery bypass surgery. The surgery creates a new path for blood to flow to the heart. The surgeon takes a healthy piece of vein from the leg or artery from the chest or wrist. Then the surgeon attaches it to the coronary artery, just above and below the narrowed area or blockage. This allows blood to bypass (get around) the blockage. Sometimes people need more than one bypass. The results of the surgery usually are excellent. Many people remain symptom-free for many years. You may need surgery again if blockages form in the grafted arteries or veins or in arteries that weren't blocked before. Lifestyle changes and medicines may help prevent arteries from becoming clogged again. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Coronary Artery Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/coronaryarterydisease.html,Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common type of heart disease. It can lead to angina and heart attack. Read about symptoms and tests.," Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common type of heart disease. It is the leading cause of death in the United States in both men and women. CAD happens when the arteries that supply blood to heart muscle become hardened and narrowed. This is due to the buildup of cholesterol and other material, called plaque, on their inner walls. This buildup is called atherosclerosis . As it grows, less blood can flow through the arteries. As a result, the heart muscle can't get the blood or oxygen it needs. This can lead to chest pain ( angina ) or a heart attack . Most heart attacks happen when a blood clot suddenly cuts off the hearts' blood supply, causing permanent heart damage. Over time, CAD can also weaken the heart muscle and contribute to heart failure and arrhythmias . Heart failure means the heart can't pump blood well to the rest of the body. Arrhythmias are changes in the normal beating rhythm of the heart. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Cosmetics,https://medlineplus.gov/cosmetics.html,"Cosmetics are products you use on your body to clean it, beautify it, or change how it looks. An example is makeup. Read about using cosmetics safely."," Cosmetics are products you apply to your body to clean it, make it more attractive, or change the way it looks. They include Hair dyes Makeup Perfumes Skin-care creams Cosmetics that treat or prevent diseases are also drugs. Products such as dandruff shampoo, fluoride toothpaste, and antiperspirant deodorant are both cosmetics and drugs. A good way to tell if you're buying a cosmetic that is also a drug is to see if the first ingredient listed is an ""active ingredient."" The active ingredient is the chemical that makes the product effective. The manufacturer must have proof that it's safe for its intended use. Cosmetics can cause allergic reactions . The first sign is often red and irritated skin. Fragrances and preservatives are the most common causes of skin problems. To find out all the ingredients in a cosmetic you use, check the container. Manufacturers are required to list them. Labels such as ""natural"" and ""hypoallergenic"" have no official meaning. Companies can use them to mean whatever they want. Food and Drug Administration"
Cough,https://medlineplus.gov/cough.html,Coughing helps your body heal or protect itself. There are two types of coughs: acute and chronic. Learn the causes of chronic cough.," Coughing is a reflex that keeps your throat and airways clear. Although it can be annoying, coughing helps your body heal or protect itself. Coughs can be either acute or chronic. Acute coughs begin suddenly and usually last no more than 2 to 3 weeks. Acute coughs are the kind you most often get with a cold , flu , or acute bronchitis . Chronic coughs last longer than 2 to 3 weeks. Causes of chronic cough include Chronic bronchitis Asthma Allergies COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) Smoking Throat disorders , such as croup in young children Some medicines Water can help ease your cough - whether you drink it or add it to the air with a steamy shower or vaporizer. If you have a cold or the flu, antihistamines may work better than non-prescription cough medicines . Children under four should not have cough medicine. For children over four, use caution and read labels carefully."
COVID-19 (Coronavirus Disease 2019),https://medlineplus.gov/covid19coronavirusdisease2019.html,COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is an illness caused by a virus. This virus is a new coronavirus that has spread throughout the world. Find out how to protect yourself and your family.," COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is an illness caused by a virus. This virus is a new coronavirus that has spread throughout the world. It is thought to spread mainly through close contact from person to person. On this page, you'll find links to resources on important issues such as symptoms, risks, and how you can protect yourself and your family. We also have pages on COVID-19 testing and vaccines , including the vaccines that have been authorized in the United States and the others that are still in progress."
COVID-19 Testing,https://medlineplus.gov/covid19testing.html,"Learn about the different types of tests for COVID-19, who needs a test, and how and where you can get a test."," COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is an illness caused by a virus. This virus is a new coronavirus that has spread throughout the world. It is called SARS-CoV-2. There are two types of tests for this virus: A viral test tells you if you have a current infection An antibody (serology) test might tell you if you had a past infection If you think that you need a COVID-19 test , contact your health care provider. You can also check your state or local health department's website for information on testing in your area. Even if a test shows that you do not currently have COVID-19, you should still take steps to protect yourself and others . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
COVID-19 Vaccines,https://medlineplus.gov/covid19vaccines.html,Learn about the vaccines that have been approved and the vaccination program.," COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is an illness caused by a virus. This virus is a new coronavirus that has spread throughout the world. In the United States, there are several authorized and recommended vaccines to prevent COVID-19. These vaccines are being used under Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These FDA decisions mean that the vaccines met the FDA's scientific standards for safety , effectiveness, and manufacturing quality needed to support EUA. This page includes details about the vaccines and the vaccination program, including where you can find a vaccine . You can also find information about other COVID-19 vaccines that are still in progress. This includes details on how to volunteer for a vaccine clinical trial. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
CPR,https://medlineplus.gov/cpr.html,CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) is an emergency technique used on someone whose heart or breathing has stopped. Learn it; you might save a life.," When someone's blood flow or breathing stops, seconds count. Permanent brain damage or death can happen quickly. If you know how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), you could save a life. CPR is an emergency procedure for a person whose heart has stopped or is no longer breathing. CPR can maintain circulation and breathing until emergency medical help arrives. Even if you haven't had training, you can do ""hands-only"" CPR for a teen or adult whose heart has stopped beating (""hands-only"" CPR isn't recommended for children). ""Hands-only"" CPR uses chest compressions to keep blood circulating until emergency help arrives. If you've had training, you can use chest compressions, clear the airway, and do rescue breathing. Rescue breathing helps get oxygen to the lungs for a person who has stopped breathing. To keep your skills up, you should repeat the training every two years."
Craniofacial Abnormalities,https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html,Craniofacial abnormalities (or craniofacial anomalies) are birth defects of the face or head. A common example is cleft lip and palate. Read more. ," Craniofacial is a medical term that relates to the bones of the skull and face. Craniofacial abnormalities are birth defects of the face or head. Some, like cleft lip and palate , are among the most common of all birth defects. Others are very rare. Most of them affect how a person's face or head looks. These conditions may also affect other parts of the body. Treatment depends on the type of problem. Plastic and reconstructive surgery may help the person's appearance."
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/creutzfeldtjakobdisease.html,"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare, degenerative brain disorder. CJD progresses rapidly and is fatal. Learn how to prevent CJD. "," Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare, degenerative brain disorder . Symptoms usually start around age 60. Memory problems, behavior changes, vision problems, and poor muscle coordination progress quickly to dementia , coma, and death. Most patients die within a year. The three main categories of CJD are Sporadic CJD, which occurs for no known reason Hereditary CJD, which runs in families Acquired CJD, which occurs from contact with infected tissue, usually during a medical procedure Cattle can get a disease related to CJD called bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) or ""mad cow disease."" There is concern that people can get a variant of CJD from eating beef from an infected animal, but there is no direct proof to support this. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Critical Care,https://medlineplus.gov/criticalcare.html,Critical care (also called intensive care) helps people with life-threatening injuries and illnesses. Learn what to expect and how to prepare.," What is critical care? Critical care is medical care for people who have life-threatening injuries and illnesses. It usually takes place in an intensive care unit (ICU). A team of specially-trained health care providers gives you 24-hour care. This includes using machines to constantly monitor your vital signs . It also usually involves giving you specialized treatments. Who needs critical care? You need critical care if you have a life-threatening illness or injury, such as Severe burns COVID-19 Heart attack Heart failure Kidney failure People recovering from certain major surgeries Respiratory failure Sepsis Severe bleeding Serious infections Serious injuries , such as from car crashes, falls , and shootings Shock Stroke What happens in a critical care unit? In a critical care unit, health care providers use lots of different equipment, including Catheters, flexible tubes used to get fluids into the body or to drain fluids from the body Dialysis machines (""artificial kidneys"") for people with kidney failure Feeding tubes, which give you nutritional support Intravenous (IV) tubes to give you fluids and medicines Machines which check your vital signs and display them on monitors Oxygen therapy to give you extra oxygen to breathe in Tracheostomy tubes, which are breathing tubes. The tube is placed in a surgically made hole that goes through the front of the neck and into the windpipe. Ventilators (breathing machines), which move air in and out of your lungs. This is for people who have respiratory failure. These machines can help keep you alive, but many of them can also raise your risk of infection. Sometimes people in a critical care unit are not able to communicate. It's important that you have an advance directive in place. This can help your health care providers and family members make important decisions, including end-of-life decisions , if you are not able to make them."
Crohn's Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/crohnsdisease.html,"Crohn's Disease can cause inflammation in any area from the mouth to the anus. Read about medicines, surgery or dietary management to treat symptoms."," What is Crohn's disease? Crohn's disease is a chronic disease that causes inflammation in your digestive tract. It can affect any part of your digestive tract, which runs from your mouth to your anus. But it usually affects your small intestine and the beginning of your large intestine. Crohn's disease is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Ulcerative colitis and microscopic colitis are other common types of IBD. What causes Crohn's disease? The cause of Crohn's disease is unknown. Researchers think that an autoimmune reaction may be one cause. An autoimmune reaction happens when your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body. Genetics may also play a role, since Crohn's disease can run in families. Stress and eating certain foods don't cause the disease, but they can make your symptoms worse. Who is at risk for Crohn's disease? There are certain factors which can raise your risk of Crohn's disease: Family history of the disease. Having a parent, child, or sibling with the disease puts you at higher risk. Smoking . This may double your risk of developing Crohn's disease. Certain medicines , such as antibiotics , birth-control pills , and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin or ibuprofen. These may slightly increase your chance of developing Crohn's. A high-fat diet. This may also slightly increase your risk of Crohn's. What are the symptoms of Crohn's disease? The symptoms of Crohn's disease can vary, depending where and how severe your inflammation is. The most common symptoms include Diarrhea Cramping and pain in your abdomen Weight loss Some other possible symptoms are Anemia , a condition in which you have fewer red blood cells than normal Eye redness or pain Fatigue Fever Joint pain or soreness Nausea or loss of appetite Skin changes that involve red, tender bumps under the skin Stress and eating certain foods such as carbonated drinks and high-fiber foods may make some people's symptoms worse. What other problems can Crohn's disease cause? Crohn's disease can cause other problems, including Intestinal obstruction , a blockage in the intestine Fistulas , abnormal connections between two parts inside of the body Abscesses , pus-filled pockets of infection Anal fissures, small tears in your anus that may cause itching, pain, or bleeding Ulcers, open sores in your mouth, intestines, anus, or perineum Malnutrition , when your body does not get the right amount of vitamins, minerals, and nutrients it needs Inflammation in other areas of your body, such as your joints, eyes, and skin How is Crohn's disease diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your family history and medical history Will ask about your symptoms Will do a physical exam, including Checking for bloating in your abdomen Listening to sounds within your abdomen using a stethoscope Tapping on your abdomen to check for tenderness and pain and to see if your liver or spleen is abnormal or enlarged May do various tests, including Blood and stool tests A colonoscopy An upper GI endoscopy, a procedure in which your provider uses a scope to look inside your mouth, esophagus, stomach, and small intestine Diagnostic imaging tests, such as a CT scan or an upper GI series. An upper GI series uses a special liquid called barium and x-rays . Drinking the barium will make your upper GI tract more visible on an x-ray. What are the treatments for Crohn's disease? There is no cure for Crohn's disease, but treatments can decrease the inflammation in your intestines, relieve symptoms, and prevent complications. Treatments include medicines, bowel rest, and surgery. No single treatment works for everyone. You and your health care provider can work together to figure out which treatment is best for you: Medicines for Crohn's include various medicines that decrease the inflammation. Some of these medicines do this by reducing the activity of your immune system. Medicines can also help with symptoms or complications, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and anti-diarrheal medicines. If your Crohn's causes an infection, you may need antibiotics. Bowel rest involves drinking only certain liquids or not eating or drinking anything. This allows your intestines to rest. You may need to do this if your Crohn's disease symptoms are severe. You get your nutrients through drinking a liquid, a feeding tube, or an intravenous (IV) tube. You may need to do bowel rest in the hospital, or you may be able to do it at home. It will last for a few days or up to several weeks. Surgery can treat complications and reduce symptoms when other treatments are not helping enough. The surgery will involve removing a damaged part of your digestive tract to treat Fistulas Bleeding that is life threatening Intestinal obstructions Side effects from medicines when they threaten your health Symptoms when medicines do not improve your condition Changing your diet can help reduce symptoms. Your provider may recommend that you make changes to your diet, such as Avoiding carbonated drinks Avoiding popcorn, vegetable skins, nuts, and other high-fiber foods Drinking more liquids Eating smaller meals more often Keeping a food diary to help identify foods that cause problems Some people also need go on special diet, such as a low-fiber diet. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Croup,https://medlineplus.gov/croup.html,"Croup symptoms include difficulty breathing, a barking cough, and a hoarse voice. Children are at the highest risk. Learn more about croup."," Croup is an inflammation of the vocal cords (larynx) and windpipe (trachea). It causes difficulty breathing, a barking cough, and a hoarse voice. The cause is usually a virus, often parainfluenza virus . Other causes include allergies and reflux . Croup often starts out like a cold. But then the vocal cords and windpipe become swollen, causing the hoarseness and the cough. There may also be a fever and high-pitched noisy sounds when breathing. The symptoms are usually worse at night, and last for about three to five days. Children between the ages of 6 months and 3 years have the highest risk of getting croup. They may also have more severe symptoms. Croup is more common in the fall and winter. Most cases of viral croup are mild and can be treated at home. Rarely, croup can become serious and interfere with your child's breathing. If you are worried about your child's breathing, call your health care provider right away."
Cryptosporidiosis,https://medlineplus.gov/cryptosporidiosis.html,"Cryptosporidiosis or Crypto is an illness caused by a parasite that lives in soil, food and water. Learn the common symptoms and what you should do."," Cryptosporidiosis (crypto) is an illness caused by a parasite. The parasite lives in soil, food, and water. It may also be on surfaces that have been contaminated with feces (poop). You can become infected by swallowing the parasite, if it is in your food, drinking water, or water that you swim in. You can also get it by touching your mouth with contaminated hands. The most common symptom of crypto is watery diarrhea. Other symptoms include Dehydration Weight loss Stomach cramps or pain Fever Nausea Vomiting Contact your health care provider if you have watery diarrhea that lasts more than a few days. Most people with crypto get better without treatment within one to two weeks. But crypto can cause serious problems in people with weak immune systems, like those with HIV/AIDS . To reduce your risk of crypto, wash your hands often, only drink water that you know is safe, and wash or peel fresh fruits and vegetables before eating. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
CT Scans,https://medlineplus.gov/ctscans.html,"Doctors use CT scans (or CAT scans) to look for broken bones, cancers, blood clots, and more. Learn about the CT scan and what to expect during one."," Computed tomography (CT) is a type of imaging. It uses special x-ray equipment to make cross-sectional pictures of your body. Doctors use CT scans to look for Fractures (broken bones) Cancers Blood clots Signs of heart disease Internal bleeding During a CT scan, you lie still on a table. The table slowly passes through the center of a large X-ray machine. The test is painless. During some tests you receive a contrast dye, which makes parts of your body show up better in the image. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Cushing's Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/cushingssyndrome.html,"Cushing's Syndrome (Hypercortisolism) is a rare hormonal disorder caused by over exposure to the hormone, Cortisol. Lab tests can show if you have it."," Cushing's syndrome is a hormonal disorder. The cause is long-term exposure to too much cortisol, a hormone that your adrenal gland makes. Sometimes, taking synthetic hormone medicine to treat an inflammatory disease leads to Cushing's. Some kinds of tumors produce a hormone that can cause your body to make too much cortisol. Cushing's syndrome is rare. Some symptoms are Upper body obesity Thin arms and legs Severe fatigue and muscle weakness High blood pressure High blood sugar Easy bruising Lab tests can show if you have it and find the cause. Your treatment will depend on why you have too much cortisol. If it is because you have been taking synthetic hormones, a lower dose may control your symptoms. If the cause is a tumor, surgery and other therapies may be needed. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Cystic Fibrosis,https://medlineplus.gov/cysticfibrosis.html,Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease of the mucus and sweat glands. The symptoms and severity of CF can vary. Get the facts. ," Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease of the mucus and sweat glands. It affects mostly your lungs, pancreas, liver, intestines, sinuses, and sex organs. CF causes your mucus to be thick and sticky. The mucus clogs the lungs, causing breathing problems and making it easy for bacteria to grow. This can lead to repeated lung infections and lung damage. The symptoms and severity of CF can vary. Some people have serious problems from birth. Others have a milder version of the disease that doesn't show up until they are teens or young adults. Sometimes you will have few symptoms, but later you may have more symptoms. CF is diagnosed through various tests, such as gene, blood, and sweat tests. There is no cure for CF, but treatments have improved greatly in recent years. In the past, most deaths from CF were in children and teenagers. Today, with improved treatments, some people who have CF are living into their forties, fifties, or older. Treatments may include chest physical therapy, nutritional and respiratory therapies , medicines, and exercise. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Cytomegalovirus Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/cytomegalovirusinfections.html,Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a virus found worldwide. Most people with CMV don't need treatment. Learn about who is at risk and how to prevent infection.," Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a virus found around the world. It is related to the viruses that cause chickenpox and infectious mononucleosis (mono). Between 50% and 80% of adults in the United States have had a CMV infection by age 40. Once CMV is in a person's body, it stays there for life. CMV is spread through close contact with body fluids. Most people with CMV don't get sick and don't know that they've been infected. But infection with the virus can be serious in babies and people with weak immune systems. If a woman gets CMV when she is pregnant, she can pass it on to her baby. Usually the babies do not have health problems. But some babies can develop lifelong disabilities. A blood test can tell whether a person has ever been infected with CMV. Most people with CMV don't need treatment. If you have a weakened immune system, your doctor may prescribe antiviral medicine. Good hygiene, including proper hand washing, may help prevent infections. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
"Dandruff, Cradle Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions",https://medlineplus.gov/dandruffcradlecapandotherscalpconditions.html,"Dandruff, flaking of skin on your scalp, can be annoying and itchy. Learn about how to treat it, as well as cradle cap and other scalp conditions."," Your scalp is the skin on the top of your head. Unless you have hair loss , hair grows on your scalp. Different skin problems can affect your scalp. Dandruff is a flaking of the skin. The flakes are yellow or white. Dandruff may make your scalp feel itchy. It usually starts after puberty, and is more common in men. Dandruff is usually a symptom of seborrheic dermatitis, or seborrhea. It is a skin condition that can also cause redness and irritation of the skin. Most of the time, using a dandruff shampoo can help control your dandruff. If that does not work, contact your health care provider. There is a type of seborrheic dermatitis that babies can get. It is called cradle cap. It usually lasts a few months, and then goes away on its own. Besides the scalp, it can sometimes affect other parts of the body, such as the eyelids, armpits, groin, and ears. Normally, washing your baby's hair every day with a mild shampoo and gently rubbing their scalp with your fingers or a soft brush can help. For severe cases, your health care provider may give you a prescription shampoo or cream to use. Other problems that can affect the scalp include Scalp ringworm , a fungal infection that causes itchy, red patches on your head. It can also leave bald spots. It usually affects children. Scalp psoriasis , which causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. About half of the people with psoriasis have it on their scalp."
DASH Eating Plan,https://medlineplus.gov/dasheatingplan.html,"The DASH eating plan helps lower high blood pressure. It recommends eating fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and limiting salt, bad fats, and sweets. Learn about this heart-healthy eating plan."," DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. It is an eating plan that is based on research studies sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI). These studies showed that DASH lowers high blood pressure and improves levels of cholesterol . This reduces your risk of getting heart disease . The DASH eating plan Emphasizes vegetables, fruits, and whole-grains Includes fat-free or low-fat dairy products, fish, poultry, beans, nuts, and vegetable oils Limits foods that are high in saturated fat. These foods include fatty meats, full-fat dairy products, and tropical oils such as coconut, palm kernel, and palm oils. Limits sugar-sweetened beverages and sweets Along with DASH, other lifestyle changes can help lower your blood pressure . They include staying at a healthy weight, exercising, and not smoking. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Deep Vein Thrombosis,https://medlineplus.gov/deepveinthrombosis.html,"Deep vein thrombosis (DVT), is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body, often in the leg. Learn about the causes, symptoms, and treatments."," Deep vein thrombosis, or DVT, is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body. Most deep vein clots occur in the lower leg or thigh. If the vein swells, the condition is called thrombophlebitis. A deep vein thrombosis can break loose and cause a serious problem in the lung, called a pulmonary embolism . Sitting still for a long time can make you more likely to get a DVT. Some medicines and disorders that increase your risk for blood clots can also lead to DVTs. Common symptoms are Warmth and tenderness over the vein Pain or swelling in the part of the body affected Skin redness Treatment includes medicines to ease pain and inflammation, break up clots and keep new clots from forming. Keeping the affected area raised and applying moist heat can also help. If you are taking a long car or plane trip, take a break, walk or stretch your legs and drink plenty of liquids."
Degenerative Nerve Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/degenerativenervediseases.html,Neurodegenerative (degenerative nerve) diseases are disorders that destroy motor neurons. Parkinson's is an examples. See a list of all the diseases.," Degenerative nerve diseases affect many of your body's activities, such as balance, movement, talking, breathing, and heart function. Many of these diseases are genetic. Sometimes the cause is a medical condition such as alcoholism, a tumor, or a stroke. Other causes may include toxins, chemicals, and viruses. Sometimes the cause is unknown. Degenerative nerve diseases include Alzheimer's disease Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Friedreich's ataxia Huntington's disease Lewy body disease Parkinson's disease Spinal muscular atrophy Degenerative nerve diseases can be serious or life-threatening. It depends on the type. Most of them have no cure. Treatments may help improve symptoms, relieve pain, and increase mobility."
Dehydration,https://medlineplus.gov/dehydration.html,"Dehydration means your body doesn't have enough fluid. Learn about the signs and symptoms of dehydration, and what to do about it."," What is dehydration? Dehydration is condition caused by the loss of too much fluid from the body . It happens when you are losing more fluids than you are taking in, and your body does not have enough fluids to work properly. What causes dehydration? You can become dehydrated because of Diarrhea Vomiting Sweating too much Urinating too much, which can happen because of certain medicines and illnesses Fever Not drinking enough Who is at risk for dehydration? Certain people have a higher risk of dehydration: Older adults. Some people lose their sense of thirst as they age, so they don't drink enough fluids. Infants and young children, who are more likely to have diarrhea or vomiting People with chronic illnesses that cause them to urinate or sweat more often, such as diabetes , cystic fibrosis , or kidney problems People who take medicines that cause them to urinate or sweat more People who exercise or work outdoors during hot weather What are the symptoms of dehydration? In adults , the symptoms of dehydration include Feeling very thirsty Dry mouth Urinating and sweating less than usual Dark-colored urine Dry skin Feeling tired Dizziness In infants and young children , the symptoms of dehydration include Dry mouth and tongue Crying without tears No wet diapers for 3 hours or more A high fever Being unusually sleepy or drowsy Irritability Eyes that look sunken Dehydration can be mild, or it can be severe enough to be life-threatening. Get medical help right away if the symptoms also include Confusion Fainting Lack of urination Rapid heartbeat Rapid breathing Shock How is dehydration diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will Do a physical exam Check your vital signs Ask about your symptoms You may also have Blood tests to check your electrolyte levels, especially potassium and sodium . Electrolytes are minerals in your body that have an electric charge. They have many important jobs, including helping to keep a balance of fluids in your body. Blood tests to check your kidney function Urine tests to check for dehydration and its cause What are the treatments for dehydration? The treatment for dehydration is to replace the fluids and electrolytes that you have lost. For mild cases, you may just need to drink lots of water. If you lost electrolytes, sports drinks may help. There are also oral rehydration solutions for children. You can buy those without a prescription. Severe cases may be treated with intravenous (IV) fluids with salt in a hospital. Can dehydration be prevented? The key to preventing dehydration is making sure that you get enough fluids: Drink enough water every day. Each person's needs can be different, so ask your health care provider how much you should be drinking each day. If you are exercising in the heat and losing a lot of minerals in sweat, sports drinks can be helpful Avoid drinks that have sugar and caffeine Drink extra fluids when the weather is hot or when you are sick"
Delirium,https://medlineplus.gov/delirium.html,"Delirium a condition of rapidly changing mental states such as behavior, emotions, in and out of consciousness, hallucinations, and memory problems."," What is delirium? Delirium is a mental state in which you are confused, disoriented, and not able to think or remember clearly. It usually starts suddenly. It is often temporary and treatable. There are three types of delirium: Hypoactive, where you are not active and seem sleepy, tired, or depressed Hyperactive, where you are restless or agitated Mixed, where you change back and forth between being hypoactive and hyperactive What causes delirium? There are many different problems that can cause delirium. Some of the more common causes include Alcohol or drugs , either from intoxication or withdrawal. This includes a serious type of alcohol withdrawal syndrome called delirium tremens. It usually happens to people who stop drinking after years of alcohol abuse. Dehydration and electrolyte imbalances Dementia Hospitalization , especially in intensive care Infections , such as urinary tract infections , pneumonia , and the flu Medicines. This could be a side effect of a medicine, such as sedatives or opioids. Or it could be withdrawal after stopping a medicine. Metabolic disorders Organ failure , such as kidney or liver failure Poisoning Serious illnesses Severe pain Sleep deprivation Surgeries , including reactions to anesthesia Who is at risk for delirium? Certain factors put you at risk for delirium, including Being in a hospital or nursing home Dementia Having a serious illness or more than one illness Having an infection Older age Surgery Taking medicines that affect the mind or behavior Taking high doses of pain medicines , such as opioids What are the symptoms of delirium? The symptoms of delirium usually start suddenly, over a few hours or a few days. They often come and go. The most common symptoms include Changes in alertness (usually more alert in the morning, less at night) Changing levels of consciousness Confusion Disorganized thinking, talking in a way that doesn't make sense Disrupted sleep patterns, sleepiness Emotional changes: anger, agitation, depression , irritability, overexcitement Hallucinations and delusions Incontinence Memory problems, especially with short-term memory Trouble concentrating How is delirium diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, the health care provider Will take a medical history Will do physical and neurological exams Will do mental status testing May do lab tests May do diagnostic imaging tests Delirium and dementia have similar symptoms, so it can be hard to tell them apart. They can also occur together. Delirium starts suddenly and can cause hallucinations. The symptoms may get better or worse and can last for hours or weeks. On the other hand, dementia develops slowly and does not cause hallucinations. The symptoms are stable and may last for months or years. What are the treatments for delirium? Treatment of delirium focuses on the causes and symptoms of delirium. The first step is to identify the cause. Often, treating the cause will lead to a full recovery. The recovery may take some time - weeks or sometimes even months. In the meantime, there may be treatments to manage the symptoms, such as Controlling the environment, which includes making sure that the room is quiet and well-lit, having clocks or calendars in view, and having family members around Medicines, including those that control aggression or agitation and pain relievers if there is pain If needed, making sure that the person has a hearing aid, glasses, or other devices for communication Can delirium be prevented? Treating the conditions that can cause delirium may reduce the risk of getting it. Hospitals can help lower the risk of delirium by avoiding sedatives and making sure that the room is kept quiet, calm, and well-lit. It can also help to have family members around and to have the same staff members treat the person."
Dementia,https://medlineplus.gov/dementia.html,"People with dementia have serious problems with two or more brain functions, such as memory and language. Affects the ability to do normal activities."," What is dementia? Dementia is a loss of mental functions that is severe enough to affect your daily life and activities. These functions include Memory Language skills Visual perception (your ability to make sense of what you see) Problem solving Trouble with everyday tasks The ability to focus and pay attention It is normal to become a bit more forgetful as you age. But dementia is not a normal part of aging. It is a serious disorder which interferes with your daily life. What are the types of dementia? The most common types of dementia are known as neurodegenerative disorders. These are diseases in which the cells of the brain stop working or die. They include Alzheimer's disease , which is the most common form of dementia among older people. People with Alzheimer's have plaques and tangles in their brain. These are abnormal buildups of different proteins. Beta-amyloid protein clumps up and forms plaques in between your brain cells. Tau protein builds up and forms tangles inside the nerve cells of your brain. There is also a loss of connection between nerve cells in the brain. Lewy body dementia , which causes movement symptoms along with dementia. Lewy bodies are abnormal deposits of a protein in the brain. Frontotemporal disorders, which cause changes to certain parts of the brain: Changes in the frontal lobe lead to behavioral symptoms Changes in the temporal lobe lead to language and emotional disorders Vascular dementia, which involves changes to the brain's blood supply. It is often caused by a stroke or atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) in the brain. Mixed dementia, which is a combination of two or more types of dementia. For example, some people have both Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Other conditions can cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms, including Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease , a rare brain disorder Huntington's disease , an inherited, progressive brain disease Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), caused by repeated traumatic brain injury HIV-associated dementia (HAD) Who is at risk for dementia? Certain factors can raise your risk for developing dementia, including Aging. This is the biggest risk factor for dementia. Smoking Uncontrolled diabetes High blood pressure Drinking too much alcohol Having close family members who have dementia What are the symptoms of dementia? The symptoms of dementia can vary, depending on which parts of the brain are affected. Often, forgetfulness is the first symptom. Dementia also causes problems with the ability to think, problem solve, and reason. For example, people with dementia may Get lost in a familiar neighborhood Use unusual words to refer to familiar objects Forget the name of a close family member or friend Forget old memories Need help doing tasks that they used to do by themselves Some people with dementia cannot control their emotions and their personalities may change. They may become apathetic, meaning that they are no longer interested in normal daily activities or events. They may lose their inhibitions and stop caring about other peoples' feelings. Certain types of dementia can also cause problems with balance and movement. The stages of dementia range from mild to severe. In the mildest stage, it is just beginning to affect a person's functioning. In the most severe stage, the person is completely dependent on others for care. How is dementia diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history Will do a physical exam Will check your thinking, memory, and language abilities May do tests, such as blood tests, genetic tests , and brain scans May do a mental health evaluation to see whether a mental disorder is contributing to your symptoms What are the treatments for dementia? There is no cure for most types of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementia. Treatments may help to maintain mental function longer, manage behavioral symptoms, and slow down the symptoms of disease. They may include Medicines may temporarily improve memory and thinking or slow down their decline. They only work in some people. Other medicines can treat symptoms such as anxiety, depression, sleep problems, and muscle stiffness. Some of these medicines can cause strong side effects in people with dementia. It is important to talk to your health care provider about which medicines will be safe for you. Occupational therapy to help find ways to more easily do everyday activities Speech therapy to help with swallowing difficulties and trouble speaking loudly and clearly Mental health counseling to help people with dementia and their families learn how to manage difficult emotions and behaviors. It can also help them plan for the future. Music or art therapy to reduce anxiety and improve well-being Can dementia be prevented? Researchers have not found a proven way to prevent dementia. Living a healthy lifestyle might influence some of your risk factors for dementia."
Dengue,https://medlineplus.gov/dengue.html,Dengue is an infection caused by a virus. You can get it if an infected mosquito bites you. Learn more about risk and prevention.," Dengue is an infection caused by a virus. You can get it if an infected mosquito bites you. Dengue does not spread from person to person. It is common in warm, wet areas of the world. Outbreaks occur in the rainy season. Dengue is rare in the United States. Symptoms include a high fever, headaches, joint and muscle pain, vomiting, and a rash. In some cases, dengue turns into dengue hemorrhagic fever, which causes bleeding from your nose, gums, or under your skin. It can also become dengue shock syndrome, which causes massive bleeding and shock. These forms of dengue are life-threatening. There is no specific treatment. Most people with dengue recover within 2 weeks. Until then, drinking lots of fluids, resting and taking non-aspirin fever-reducing medicines might help. People with the more severe forms of dengue usually need to go to the hospital and get fluids. To lower your risk when traveling to areas where dengue is found Wear insect repellent with DEET Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs and feet Close unscreened doors and windows"
Dental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/dentalhealth.html,Investing in dental health can yield many benefits. Discover a list of simple ways to keep your oral health on track.," It's important to take care of your mouth and teeth starting in childhood . If you don't, you could have problems with your teeth and gums - like cavities or even tooth loss. Here's how to keep your mouth and teeth healthy: Brush your teeth twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste Clean between your teeth every day with floss or another type of between-the-teeth cleaner Snack smart - limit sugary snacks Don't smoke or chew tobacco See your dentist or oral health professional regularly NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
Dentures,https://medlineplus.gov/dentures.html,Dentures are false teeth made to replace lost teeth. Dentures can be partial or complete. Read more about how to properly care for and adjust to them.," Dentures are false teeth made to replace teeth you have lost. They can be complete or partial. Complete dentures cover your entire upper or lower jaw. Partials replace one or a few teeth. Dentures may feel strange at first. Speaking and eating may feel different. Be careful when wearing dentures because they may make it harder for you to feel hot foods and liquids. Also, you may not notice biting on a bone from your food. In the beginning, your dentist may want to see you often to make sure the dentures fit. Over time, your mouth will change and you may need to have your dentures adjusted or replaced. Be sure to let your dentist handle these adjustments. If your dentures move too much in your mouth, denture adhesive may help. In some cases, your dentist may suggest that you switch to dental implants. They are permanent, and they replace both the roots and teeth. Keep your dentures clean and free from food that can cause stains, bad breath, or swollen gums. Brush them every day with a denture care product. Take your dentures out of your mouth at night, and put them in water or a denture-cleansing liquid. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Depression,https://medlineplus.gov/depression.html,"Depression is a serious medical illness. It affects almost 7 percent of U.S. adults. It causes feelings of sadness, hopelessness, and frustration that do not go away. Learn about treatments."," Depression is a serious medical illness. It's more than just a feeling of being sad or ""blue"" for a few days. If you are one of the more than 19 million teens and adults in the United States who have depression, the feelings do not go away. They persist and interfere with your everyday life. Symptoms can include Feeling sad or ""empty"" Loss of interest in favorite activities Overeating, or not wanting to eat at all Not being able to sleep, or sleeping too much Feeling very tired Feeling hopeless, irritable, anxious, or guilty Aches or pains, headaches, cramps, or digestive problems Thoughts of death or suicide Depression is a disorder of the brain. There are a variety of causes, including genetic, biological, environmental, and psychological factors. Depression can happen at any age, but it often begins in teens and young adults. It is much more common in women. Women can also get postpartum depression after the birth of a baby. Some people get seasonal affective disorder in the winter. Depression is one part of bipolar disorder . There are effective treatments for depression, including antidepressants , talk therapy, or both. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Developmental Disabilities,https://medlineplus.gov/developmentaldisabilities.html,"Developmental disabilities can be physical, mental, or both. The problems are usually life-long, but therapy can help. Learn more."," Developmental disabilities are severe, long-term problems. They may be physical, such as blindness . They may affect mental ability, such as learning disabilities . Or the problem can be both physical and mental, such as Down syndrome . The problems are usually life-long, and can affect everyday living. There are many causes of developmental disabilities, including Genetic or chromosome abnormalities. These cause conditions such as Down syndrome and Rett syndrome . Prenatal exposure to substances. For example, drinking alcohol when pregnant can cause fetal alcohol spectrum disorders . Certain infections in pregnancy Preterm birth Often there is no cure, but treatment can help the symptoms. Treatments include physical, speech, and occupational therapy. Special education classes and psychological counseling can also help. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Diabetes,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetes.html,"Learn about symptoms, causes, tests and treatment for diabetes, the disease in which blood sugar levels are too high. Includes type 1 and type 2 diabetes."," Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. With type 1 diabetes , your body does not make insulin. With type 2 diabetes , the more common type, your body does not make or use insulin well. Without enough insulin, the glucose stays in your blood. You can also have prediabetes . This means that your blood sugar is higher than normal but not high enough to be called diabetes. Having prediabetes puts you at a higher risk of getting type 2 diabetes. Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause serious problems . It can damage your eyes , kidneys , and nerves . Diabetes can also cause heart disease , stroke and even the need to remove a limb. Pregnant women can also get diabetes, called gestational diabetes . Blood tests can show if you have diabetes. One type of test, the A1C , can also check on how you are managing your diabetes. Exercise, weight control and sticking to your meal plan can help control your diabetes. You should also monitor your blood glucose level and take medicine if prescribed. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetes and Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesandpregnancy.html,Gestational Diabetes is diabetes developed during pregnancy. Women with Gestational Diabetes are at risk for developing Type 2 Diabetes later in life.," Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. When you are pregnant , high blood sugar levels are not good for your baby. About seven out of every 100 pregnant women in the United States get gestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes is diabetes that happens for the first time when a woman is pregnant. Most of the time, it goes away after you have your baby. But it does increase your risk for developing type 2 diabetes later on. Your child is also at risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes. Most women get a test to check for diabetes during their second trimester of pregnancy. Women at higher risk may get a test earlier. If you already have diabetes, the best time to control your blood sugar is before you get pregnant. High blood sugar levels can be harmful to your baby during the first weeks of pregnancy - even before you know you are pregnant. To keep you and your baby healthy, it is important to keep your blood sugar as close to normal as possible before and during pregnancy. Either type of diabetes during pregnancy increases the chances of problems for you and your baby. To help lower the chances talk to your health care team about A meal plan for your pregnancy A safe exercise plan How often to test your blood sugar Taking your medicine as prescribed. Your medicine plan may need to change during pregnancy. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetes Complications,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetescomplications.html,"Diabetes affects body functions. Complications include skin problems, digestive problems, sexual dysfunction, and problems with your teeth and gums."," What is diabetes? If you have diabetes , your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. A hormone called insulin helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. With type 1 diabetes , your body does not make insulin. With type 2 diabetes , your body does not make or use insulin well. Without enough insulin, the glucose stays in your blood. What health problems can diabetes cause? Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause complications, including Eye disease , due to changes in fluid levels, swelling in the tissues, and damage to the blood vessels in the eyes Foot problems , caused by damage to the nerves and reduced blood flow to your feet Gum disease and other dental problems, because a high amount of blood sugar in your saliva helps harmful bacteria grow in your mouth. The bacteria combine with food to form a soft, sticky film called plaque. Plaque also comes from eating foods that contain sugars or starches. Some types of plaque cause gum disease and bad breath . Other types cause tooth decay and cavities. Heart disease and stroke , caused by damage to your blood vessels and the nerves that control your heart and blood vessels Kidney disease , due to damage to the blood vessels in your kidneys. Many people with diabetes develop high blood pressure . That can also damage your kidneys. Nerve problems (diabetic neuropathy), caused by damage to the nerves and the small blood vessels that nourish your nerves with oxygen and nutrients Sexual and bladder problems, caused by damage to the nerves and reduced blood flow in the genitals and bladder Skin conditions , some of which are caused by changes in the small blood vessels and reduced circulation. People with diabetes are also more likely to have infections, including skin infections . What other problems can people with diabetes have? If you have diabetes, you need to watch out for blood sugar levels that are very high (hyperglycemia) or very low (hypoglycemia). These can happen quickly and can become dangerous. Some of the causes include having another illness or infection and certain medicines. They can also happen if you don't get the right amount of diabetes medicines . To try to prevent these problems, make sure to take your diabetes medicines correctly, follow your diabetic diet , and check your blood sugar regularly. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetes in Children and Teens,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesinchildrenandteens.html,Children and teens can get Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes. Learn the differences between the two.," Until recently, the common type of diabetes in children and teens was type 1 . It was called juvenile diabetes. With Type 1 diabetes, the pancreas does not make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps glucose,or sugar, get into your cells to give them energy. Without insulin, too much sugar stays in the blood. Now younger people are also getting type 2 diabetes . Type 2 diabetes used to be called adult-onset diabetes. But now it is becoming more common in children and teens, due to more obesity . With Type 2 diabetes, the body does not make or use insulin well. Children have a higher risk of type 2 diabetes if they are overweight or have obesity, have a family history of diabetes, or are not active. Children who are African American, Hispanic, Native American/Alaska Native, Asian American, or Pacific Islander also have a higher risk. To lower the risk of type 2 diabetes in children Have them maintain a healthy weight Be sure they are physically active Have them eat smaller portions of healthy foods Limit time with the TV, computer, and video Children and teens with type 1 diabetes may need to take insulin. Type 2 diabetes may be controlled with diet and exercise . If not, patients will need to take oral diabetes medicines or insulin. A blood test called the A1C can check on how you are managing your diabetes."
Diabetes Insipidus,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesinsipidus.html,Diabetes insipidus (DI) causes frequent urination. Read about DI's associated urination cycle and how your kidneys handle the fluids," Diabetes insipidus (DI) causes frequent urination. You become extremely thirsty, so you drink. Then you urinate. This cycle can keep you from sleeping or even make you wet the bed. Your body produces lots of urine that is almost all water. DI is different from diabetes mellitus (DM), which involves insulin problems and high blood sugar. The symptoms can be similar. However, DI is related to how your kidneys handle fluids. It's much less common than DM. Urine and blood tests can show which one you have. Usually, DI is caused by a problem with your pituitary gland or your kidneys. Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. Medicines can often help. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetes Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesmedicines.html,Diabetes medicines can help to control your Diabetes. The right medicines depend on factors such as the type of Diabetes you have.," What is diabetes? Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. If you have type 1 diabetes , your body does not make insulin. With type 2 diabetes , the more common type, your body does not make or use insulin well. Without enough insulin, too much glucose stays in your blood. What are the treatments for diabetes? Treatments for diabetes depend on the type. Common treatments include a diabetic meal plan , regular physical activity, and medicines. Some less common treatments are weight loss surgery for either type and an artificial pancreas or pancreatic islet transplantation for some people with type 1 diabetes. Who needs diabetes medicines? People with type 1 diabetes need to take insulin to control their blood sugar. Some people with type 2 diabetes can control their blood sugar with healthy food choices and physical activity. But for others, a diabetic meal plan and physical activity are not enough. They need to take diabetes medicines. The kind of medicine you take depends on your type of diabetes, daily schedule, medicine costs, and other health conditions. What are the types of medicines for type 1 diabetes? If you have type 1 diabetes, you must take insulin because your body no longer makes it. Different types of insulin start to work at different speeds, and the effects of each last a different length of time. You may need to use more than one type. You can take insulin several different ways. The most common are with a needle and syringe, an insulin pen, or an insulin pump. If you use a needle and syringe or a pen, you have to take insulin several times during the day, including with meals. An insulin pump gives you small, steady doses throughout the day. Less common ways to take insulin include Inhalers, injection ports, and jet injectors. In rare cases, taking insulin alone might not be enough to manage your blood sugar. Then you would need to take another diabetes medicine. What are the types of medicines for type 2 diabetes? There are several different medicines for type 2 diabetes. Each works in a different way. Many diabetes medicines are pills. There are also medicines that you inject under your skin, such as insulin. Over time, you may need more than one diabetes medicine to manage your blood sugar. You might add another diabetes medicine or switch to a combination medicine. A combination medicine is a pill than contains more than one type of diabetes medicine. Some people with type 2 diabetes take both pills and insulin. Even if you don't usually take insulin, you may need it at special times, such as during pregnancy or if you are in the hospital. What else should I know about taking medicines for diabetes? Even if you take medicines for diabetes, you still need to eat a healthy diet and do regular physical activity. These will help you manage your diabetes. It is important to make sure that you understand your diabetes treatment plan. Talk to your provider about What your target blood sugar level is What to do if your blood sugar gets too low or too high Whether your diabetes medicines will affect other medicines you take Any side effects you have from the diabetes medicines You should not change or stop your diabetes medicines on your own. Talk to your provider first. Some people who take diabetes medicines may need medicines for high blood pressure , high cholesterol , or other conditions. This may help you avoid or control any complications of diabetes . NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetes Type 1,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetestype1.html,"If the pancreas doesn't make needed insulin, causing blood sugar levels to be too high you have type 1 or juvenile diabetes. Learn the signs."," Diabetes means your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. With type 1 diabetes, your pancreas does not make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps glucose get into your cells to give them energy. Without insulin, too much glucose stays in your blood. Over time, high blood glucose can lead to serious problems with your heart , eyes , kidneys , nerves , and gums and teeth. Type 1 diabetes happens most often in children and young adults but can appear at any age. Symptoms may include Being very thirsty Urinating often Feeling very hungry or tired Losing weight without trying Having sores that heal slowly Having dry, itchy skin Losing the feeling in your feet or having tingling in your feet Having blurry eyesight A blood test can show if you have diabetes. If you do, you will need to take insulin for the rest of your life. A blood test called the A1C can check to see how well you are managing your diabetes. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetes Type 2,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetestype2.html,"Type 2 Diabetes, previously referred to as Adult Onset Diabetes, is the more common type. Risk factors include obesity and family history."," What is type 2 diabetes? Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Glucose is your main source of energy. It comes from the foods you eat. A hormone called insulin helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. If you have diabetes, your body doesn't make enough insulin or doesn't use insulin well. The glucose then stays in your blood and not enough goes into your cells. Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause health problems . But you can take steps to manage your diabetes and try to prevent these health problems. What causes type 2 diabetes? Type 2 diabetes may be caused by a combination of factors: Being overweight or having obesity Not being physically active Genetics and family history Type 2 diabetes usually starts with insulin resistance. This is a condition in which your cells don't respond normally to insulin. As a result, your body needs more insulin to help the glucose enter your cells. At first, your body makes more insulin to try to get cells to respond. But over time, your body can't make enough insulin, and your blood glucose levels rise. Who is at risk for type 2 diabetes? You are at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes if you Are over age 45. Children, teenagers , and younger adults can get type 2 diabetes, but it is more common in middle-aged and older people. Have prediabetes , which means that your blood sugar is higher than normal but not high enough to be called diabetes Had diabetes in pregnancy or gave birth to a baby weighing 9 pounds or more. Have a family history of diabetes Are overweight or have obesity Are Black or African American, Hispanic/Latino, American Indian, Asian American, or Pacific Islander Are not physically active Have other conditions such as high blood pressure , heart disease , stroke , polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), or depression Have low HDL (good) cholesterol and high triglycerides Have acanthosis nigricans - dark, thick, and velvety skin around your neck or armpits What are the symptoms of type 2 diabetes? Many people with type 2 diabetes have no symptoms at all. If you do have them, the symptoms develop slowly over several years. They might be so mild that you do not notice them. The symptoms can include Increased thirst and urination Increased hunger Feeling tired Blurred vision Numbness or tingling in the feet or hands Sores that do not heal Unexplained weight loss How is type 2 diabetes diagnosed? Your health care provider will use blood tests to diagnose type 2 diabetes. The blood tests include A1C test , which measures your average blood sugar level over the past 3 months Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) test, which measures your current blood sugar level. You need to fast (not eat or drink anything except water) for at least 8 hours before the test. Random plasma glucose (RPG) test, which measures your current blood sugar level. This test is used when you have diabetes symptoms and the provider does not want to wait for you to fast before having the test. What are the treatments for type 2 diabetes? Treatment for type 2 diabetes involves managing your blood sugar levels. Many people are able to do this by living a healthy lifestyle. Some people may also need to take medicine. A healthy lifestyle includes following a healthy eating plan and getting regular physical activity . You need to learn how to balance what you eat and drink with physical activity and diabetes medicine, if you take any. Medicines for diabetes include oral medicines, insulin, and other injectable medicines. Over time, some people will need to take more than one type of medicine to control their diabetes. You will need to check your blood sugar regularly. Your health care provider will tell you how often you need to do it. It's also important to keep your blood pressure and cholesterol levels close to the targets your provider sets for you. Make sure to get your screening tests regularly. Can type 2 diabetes be prevented? You can take steps to help prevent or delay type 2 diabetes by losing weight if you are overweight, eating fewer calories, and being more physically active. If you have a condition which raises your risk for type 2 diabetes, managing that condition may lower your risk of getting type 2 diabetes. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetic Diet,https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticdiet.html,"If you have diabetes, healthy eating helps keep your blood sugar in your target range. Learn how you can still have great tasting food with diabetes."," If you have diabetes , your body cannot make or properly use insulin. This leads to high blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels. Healthy eating helps keep your blood sugar in your target range. It is a critical part of managing your diabetes, because controlling your blood sugar can prevent the complications of diabetes . A registered dietitian can help make an eating plan just for you. It should take into account your weight, medicines, lifestyle, and other health problems you have. Healthy diabetic eating includes Limiting foods that are high in sugar Eating smaller portions, spread out over the day Being careful about when and how many carbohydrates you eat Eating a variety of whole-grain foods, fruits and vegetables every day Eating less fat Limiting your use of alcohol Using less salt NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetic Eye Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticeyeproblems.html,"Diabetes can cause eye problems such as Diabetic Retinopathy, which damages blood vessels in your retina. Know what symptoms to look out for."," If you have diabetes , your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Over time, this can damage your eyes. The most common problem is diabetic retinopathy. It is a leading cause of blindness in American adults. Your retina is the light-sensitive tissue at the back of your eye. You need a healthy retina to see clearly. Diabetic retinopathy damages the tiny blood vessels inside your retina. You may not notice it at first. Symptoms can include Blurry or double vision Rings, flashing lights, or blank spots Dark or floating spots Pain or pressure in one or both of your eyes Trouble seeing things out of the corners of your eyes Treatment often includes laser treatment or surgery, with follow-up care. Two other eye problems can happen to people with diabetes. A cataract is a cloud over the lens of your eye. Surgery helps you see clearly again. Glaucoma happens when pressure builds up in the eye, damaging the main nerve. Eye drops or surgery can help. If you have diabetes, you should have a complete eye exam every year. Finding and treating problems early may save your vision. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetic Foot,https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticfoot.html,"Over time, high blood sugar from diabetes can damage your nerves or blood vessels. This can lead to foot problems. Know how to care for diabetic feet."," If you have diabetes , your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Over time, this can damage your nerves or blood vessels. Nerve damage from diabetes can cause you to lose feeling in your feet. You may not feel a cut, a blister or a sore. Foot injuries such as these can cause ulcers and infections. Serious cases may even lead to amputation. Damage to the blood vessels can also mean that your feet do not get enough blood and oxygen. It is harder for your foot to heal, if you do get a sore or infection. You can help avoid foot problems. First, control your blood sugar levels. Good foot hygiene is also crucial: Check your feet every day Wash your feet every day Keep the skin soft and smooth Smooth corns and calluses gently If you can see, reach, and feel your feet, trim your toenails regularly. If you cannot, ask a foot doctor (podiatrist) to trim them for you. Wear shoes and socks at all times Protect your feet from hot and cold Keep the blood flowing to your feet NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetic Heart Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticheartdisease.html,Diabetes puts you at risk for heart disease. There are different types of diabetic heart disease; Some people have no signs or symptoms.," If you have diabetes or pre-diabetes you have an increased risk for heart disease. Diabetic heart disease can be coronary heart disease (CHD), heart failure , and diabetic cardiomyopathy . Diabetes by itself puts you at risk for heart disease. Other risk factors include Family history of heart disease Carrying extra weight around the waist Abnormal cholesterol levels High blood pressure Smoking Some people who have diabetic heart disease have no signs or symptoms of heart disease. Others have some or all of the symptoms of heart disease. Treatments include medications to treat heart damage or to lower your blood glucose ( blood sugar ), blood pressure, and cholesterol. If you are not already taking a low dose of aspirin every day, your doctor may suggest it. You also may need surgery or some other medical procedure. Lifestyle changes also help. These include a healthy diet, maintaining a healthy weight, being physically active, and quitting smoking. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetic Kidney Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/diabetickidneyproblems.html,Diabetes is the most common cause of kidney failure in the U.S. Kidney damage from Diabetes is called Diabetic Nephropathy.," If you have diabetes , your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Over time, this can damage your kidneys. Your kidneys clean your blood. If they are damaged, waste and fluids build up in your blood instead of leaving your body. Kidney damage from diabetes is called diabetic nephropathy. It begins long before you have symptoms. People with diabetes should get regular screenings for kidney disease. Tests include a urine test to detect protein in your urine and a blood test to show how well your kidneys are working. If the damage continues, your kidneys could fail. In fact, diabetes is the most common cause of kidney failure in the United States. People with kidney failure need either dialysis or a kidney transplant . You can slow down kidney damage or keep it from getting worse. Controlling your blood sugar and blood pressure, taking your medicines and not eating too much protein can help. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diabetic Nerve Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticnerveproblems.html,Damaged nerves caused by Diabetes is called Diabetic Neuropathy. Over half of people with Diabetes get it. Your doctor can test if you have it.," If you have diabetes , your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are too high. Over time, this can damage the covering on your nerves or the blood vessels that bring oxygen to your nerves. Damaged nerves may stop sending messages, or may send messages slowly or at the wrong times. This damage is called diabetic neuropathy. Over half of people with diabetes get it. Symptoms may include Numbness in your hands, legs, or feet Shooting pains, burning, or tingling Nausea, vomiting, constipation, or diarrhea Problems with sexual function Urinary problems Dizziness when you change positions quickly Your doctor will diagnose diabetic neuropathy with a physical exam and nerve tests. Controlling your blood sugar can help prevent nerve problems, or keep them from getting worse. Treatment may include pain relief and other medicines. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diagnostic Imaging,https://medlineplus.gov/diagnosticimaging.html,Diagnostic imaging lets doctors look inside your body for clues about a medical condition. Read about the types of images and what to expect.," Diagnostic imaging lets doctors look inside your body for clues about a medical condition. A variety of machines and techniques can create pictures of the structures and activities inside your body. The type of imaging your doctor uses depends on your symptoms and the part of your body being examined. They include X-rays CT scans Nuclear medicine scans MRI scans Ultrasound Many imaging tests are painless and easy. Some require you to stay still for a long time inside a machine. This can be uncomfortable. Certain tests involve exposure to a small amount of radiation . For some imaging tests, doctors insert a tiny camera attached to a long, thin tube into your body. This tool is called a scope . The doctor moves it through a body passageway or opening to see inside a particular organ, such as your heart, lungs, or colon. These procedures often require anesthesia."
Dialysis,https://medlineplus.gov/dialysis.html,Hemodialysis and Peritoneal Dialysis are two types of dialysis that filter your blood to rid your body of harmful waste. Read more about each type," When your kidneys are healthy, they clean your blood. They also make hormones that keep your bones strong and your blood healthy. When your kidneys fail, you need treatment to replace the work your kidneys used to do. Unless you have a kidney transplant , you will need a treatment called dialysis. There are two main types of dialysis. Both types filter your blood to rid your body of harmful wastes, extra salt, and water. Hemodialysis uses a machine. It is sometimes called an artificial kidney. You usually go to a special clinic for treatments several times a week. Peritoneal dialysis uses the lining of your abdomen, called the peritoneal membrane, to filter your blood. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diarrhea,https://medlineplus.gov/diarrhea.html,Diarrhea can range from mild to severe and can be dangerous in children. Find out what you can do to treat symptoms and when to call your doctor.," What is diarrhea? Diarrhea is loose, watery stools (bowel movements). You have diarrhea if you have loose stools three or more times in one day. Acute diarrhea is diarrhea that lasts a short time. It is a common problem. It usually lasts about one or two days, but it may last longer. Then it goes away on its own. Diarrhea lasting more than a few days may be a sign of a more serious problem. Chronic diarrhea -- diarrhea that lasts at least four weeks -- can be a symptom of a chronic disease. Chronic diarrhea symptoms may be continual, or they may come and go. What causes diarrhea? The most common causes of diarrhea include Bacteria from contaminated food or water Viruses such as the flu , norovirus , or rotavirus . Rotavirus is the most common cause of acute diarrhea in children. Parasites, which are tiny organisms found in contaminated food or water Medicines such as antibiotics, cancer drugs, and antacids that contain magnesium Food intolerances and sensitivities, which are problems digesting certain ingredients or foods. An example is lactose intolerance . Diseases that affect the stomach, small intestine, or colon, such as Crohn's disease Problems with how the colon functions, such as irritable bowel syndrome Some people also get diarrhea after stomach surgery, because sometimes the surgeries can cause food to move through your digestive system more quickly. Sometimes no cause can be found. If your diarrhea goes away within a few days, finding the cause is usually not necessary. Who is at risk for diarrhea? People of all ages can get diarrhea. On average, adults In the United States have acute diarrhea once a year. Young children have it an average of twice a year. People who visit developing countries are at risk for traveler's diarrhea . It is caused by consuming contaminated food or water. What other symptoms might I have with diarrhea? Other possible symptoms of diarrhea include Cramps or pain in the abdomen An urgent need to use the bathroom Loss of bowel control If a virus or bacteria is the cause of your diarrhea, you may also have a fever, chills, and bloody stools. Diarrhea can cause dehydration , which means that your body does not have enough fluid to work properly. Dehydration can be serious, especially for children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems. When do I need to see a health care provider for diarrhea? Although it is usually not harmful, diarrhea can become dangerous or signal a more serious problem. Contact your health care provider if you have Signs of dehydration Diarrhea for more than 2 days, if you are an adult. For children, contact the provider if it lasts more than 24 hours. Severe pain in your abdomen or rectum (for adults) A fever of 102 degrees or higher Stools containing blood or pus Stools that are black and tarry If children have diarrhea, parents or caregivers should not hesitate to call a health care provider. Diarrhea can be especially dangerous in newborns and infants. How is the cause of diarrhea diagnosed? To find the cause of diarrhea, your health care provider may Do a physical exam Ask about any medicines you are taking Test your stool or blood to look for bacteria, parasites, or other signs of disease or infection Ask you to stop eating certain foods to see whether your diarrhea goes away If you have chronic diarrhea, your health care provider may perform other tests to look for signs of disease. What are the treatments for diarrhea? Diarrhea is treated by replacing lost fluids and electrolytes to prevent dehydration. Depending on the cause of the problem, you may need medicines to stop the diarrhea or treat an infection. Adults with diarrhea should drink water, fruit juices, sports drinks, sodas without caffeine, and salty broths. As your symptoms improve, you can eat soft, bland food. Children with diarrhea should be given oral rehydration solutions to replace lost fluids and electrolytes. Can diarrhea be prevented? Two types of diarrhea can be prevented - rotavirus diarrhea and traveler's diarrhea. There are vaccines for rotavirus. They are given to babies in two or three doses. You can help prevent traveler's diarrhea by being careful about what you eat and drink when you are in developing countries: Use only bottled or purified water for drinking, making ice cubes, and brushing your teeth If you do use tap water, boil it or use iodine tablets Make sure that the cooked food you eat is fully cooked and served hot Avoid unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Dietary Fats,https://medlineplus.gov/dietaryfats.html,"Fat is not always bad for you. In fact, you need some fat in your diet. Learn about healthy fats and what to avoid."," Fat is a type of nutrient. You need some fat in your diet but not too much. Fats give you energy and help your body absorb vitamins. Dietary fat also plays a major role in your cholesterol levels . But not all fats are the same. You should try to avoid Saturated fats such as butter, solid shortening, and lard Trans fats. These are found in vegetable shortenings, some margarines, crackers, cookies, snack foods, and other foods made with or fried in partially hydrogenated oils (PHOs). By 2018, most U.S. companies will not be allowed to add PHOs to food. Try to replace them with oils such as canola, olive, safflower, sesame, or sunflower. Of course, eating too much fat will put on the pounds. Fat has twice as many calories as proteins or carbohydrates. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Dietary Fiber,https://medlineplus.gov/dietaryfiber.html,Fiber helps control your weight by making you feel full faster. It also helps prevent constipation. Learn more about fiber and high fiber foods.," Fiber is a substance in plants. Dietary fiber is the kind you eat. It's a type of carbohydrate . You may also see it listed on a food label as soluble fiber or insoluble fiber. Both types have important health benefits. Good sources of dietary fiber include Whole grains Nuts and seeds Fruit and vegetables Dietary fiber adds bulk to your diet and makes you feel full faster, helping you control your weight. It helps digestion and helps prevent constipation . Most Americans don't eat enough dietary fiber. But add it to your diet slowly. Increasing dietary fiber too quickly can lead to gas , bloating, and cramps. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Dietary Proteins,https://medlineplus.gov/dietaryproteins.html,"You need to eat protein every day. How much depends on your age, sex, and physical activity. Learn about types of protein and high protein foods."," Protein is in every cell in the body. Our bodies need protein from the foods we eat to build and maintain bones, muscles and skin. We get proteins in our diet from meat, dairy products, nuts, and certain grains and beans. Proteins from meat and other animal products are complete proteins. This means they supply all of the amino acids the body can't make on its own. Most plant proteins are incomplete. You should eat different types of plant proteins every day to get all of the amino acids your body needs. It is important to get enough dietary protein. You need to eat protein every day, because your body doesn't store it the way it stores fats or carbohydrates. How much you need depends on your age, sex, health, and level of physical activity. Most Americans eat enough protein in their diet."
Dietary Supplements,https://medlineplus.gov/dietarysupplements.html,Dietary supplements include vitamins and minerals. Get the facts about dietary supplements and how to use them safely.," Dietary supplements are vitamins , minerals , herbs , and many other products. They can come as pills, capsules, powders, drinks, and energy bars. Supplements do not have to go through the testing that drugs do. Some supplements can play an important role in health. For example, calcium and vitamin D are important for keeping bones strong. Pregnant women can take the vitamin folic acid to prevent certain birth defects in their babies. To take a supplement as safely as possible Tell your health care provider about any dietary supplements you use Do not take a bigger dose than the label recommends Check with your health care provider about the supplements you take if you are going to have any type of surgery Read trustworthy information about the supplement NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
Diets,https://medlineplus.gov/diets.html,Many people follow diets to lose weight. Some diets are fad or crash diets that rarely lead to long term weight loss. Learn about what works.," If you are overweight or have obesity , losing weight can improve your health. It might also help you prevent weight-related diseases, such as heart disease, diabetes, arthritis and some cancers. A healthy diet is an important part of a weight-loss program. It May include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and fat-free or low-fat milk and milk products May include lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, eggs and nuts Goes easy on saturated fats, trans fat, cholesterol, salt (sodium), and added sugars The key to losing weight is to burn more calories than you eat and drink. A diet can help you to do this through portion control. There are many different types of diets. Some, like the Mediterranean diet, describe a traditional way of eating from a specific region. Others, like the DASH eating plan or a diet to lower cholesterol , were designed for people who have certain health problems. But they may also help you to lose weight. There are also fad or crash diets that severely restrict calories or the types of food you are allowed to eat. They may sound promising, but they rarely lead to permanent weight loss. They also may not provide all of the nutrients your body needs. In addition to a diet, adding exercise into your daily life can help you to lose weight. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Digestive Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/digestivediseases.html,Learn about digestive disorders and how your gastrointestinal (GI) system works. Find out what tests you need in case you sense a problem.," When you eat, your body breaks food down to a form it can use to build and nourish cells and provide energy. This process is called digestion. Your digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube. It runs from your mouth to your anus and includes your esophagus, stomach, and small and large intestines. Your liver, gallbladder and pancreas are also involved. They produce juices to help digestion. There are many types of digestive disorders. The symptoms vary widely depending on the problem. In general, you should see your doctor if you have Blood in your stool Changes in bowel habits Severe abdominal pain Unintentional weight loss Heartburn not relieved by antacids NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Diphtheria,https://medlineplus.gov/diphtheria.html,Diphtheria is a bacterial infection spread through contact with an infected person or object. Diphtheria usually affects the nose and throat.," Diphtheria is a serious bacterial infection. You can catch it from a person who has the infection and coughs or sneezes. You can also get infected by coming in contact with an object, such as a toy, that has bacteria on it. Diphtheria usually affects the nose and throat. Symptoms include Sore throat Swollen glands in the neck Fever Weakness Your doctor will diagnose it based on your signs and symptoms and a lab test. Getting treatment for diphtheria quickly is important. If your doctor suspects that you have it, you'll start treatment before the lab tests come back. Treatment is with antibiotics. The diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus vaccine can prevent diphtheria, but its protection does not last forever. Children need another dose, or booster, at about age 12. Then, as adults, they should get a booster every 10 years. Diphtheria is very rare in the United States because of the vaccine. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Disabilities,https://medlineplus.gov/disabilities.html,About one in five people in the U.S. has a disability. Some people are born with one. Others have them because of an illness or injury. Learn more.," Disabilities make it harder to do normal daily activities. They may limit what you can do physically or mentally , or they can affect your senses. Disability doesn't mean unable, and it isn't a sickness. Most people with disabilities can - and do - work, play, learn, and enjoy full, healthy lives. Mobility aids and assistive devices can make daily tasks easier. About one in every five people in the United States has a disability. Some people are born with one. Others have them as a result of an illness or injury. Some people develop them as they age. Almost all of us will have a disability at some point in our lives. Department of Health and Human Services"
Disaster Preparation and Recovery,https://medlineplus.gov/disasterpreparationandrecovery.html,"Preparing for a disaster can reduce the fear, anxiety and losses that disasters cause. Learn how to be ready."," Preparing for a disaster can reduce the fear, anxiety and losses that disasters cause. A disaster can be a natural disaster, like a hurricane , tornado , flood or earthquake . It might also be man-made, like a bioterrorist attack or chemical spill . You should know the risks and danger signs of different types of disasters. You should also have a disaster plan. Be ready to evacuate your home, and know how to treat basic medical problems. Make sure you have the insurance you need, including special types, like flood insurance. No matter what kind of disaster you experience, it causes emotional distress . After a disaster, recovery can take time. Stay connected to your family and friends during this period. Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Dislocated Shoulder,https://medlineplus.gov/dislocatedshoulder.html,"A dislocated shoulder is an injury that happens when the top of upper arm bone pops out of the socket in your shoulder blade. It is painful and serious, and should be treated right away. Learn more."," What is a dislocated shoulder? Your shoulder joint is made up of three bones: your collarbone, your shoulder blade, and your upper arm bone. The top of your upper arm bone is shaped like a ball. This ball fits into a cuplike socket in your shoulder blade. A shoulder dislocation is an injury that happens when the ball pops out of your socket. A dislocation may be partial, where the ball is only partially out of the socket. It can also be a full dislocation, where the ball is completely out of the socket. What causes a dislocated shoulder? Your shoulders are the most movable joints in your body. They are also the most commonly dislocated joints. The most common causes of shoulder dislocations are Sports injuries Accidents, including traffic accidents Falling on your shoulder or outstretched arm Seizures and electric shocks, which can cause muscle contractions that pull the arm out of place Who is at risk for a dislocated shoulder? A dislocated shoulder can happen to anyone, but they are more common in young men, who are more often involved in sports and other physical activities. Older adults, especially women, are also at higher risk because they are more likely to fall. What are the symptoms of a dislocated shoulder? The symptoms of a dislocated shoulder include Severe shoulder pain Swelling and bruising of your shoulder or upper arm Numbness and/or weakness in your arm, neck, hand, or fingers Trouble moving your arm Your arm seems to be out of place Muscle spasms in your shoulder If you are having these symptoms, get medical treatment right away. How is a dislocated shoulder diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will take a medical history and examine your shoulder. Your provider may also ask you to get an x-ray to confirm the diagnosis. What are the treatments for a dislocated shoulder? The treatment for dislocated shoulder usually involves three steps: The first step is a closed reduction, a procedure in which your health care provider puts the ball of your upper arm back into the socket. You may first get medicine to relieve the pain and relax your shoulder muscles. Once the joint is back in place, the severe pain should end. The second step is wearing a sling or other device to keep your shoulder in place. You will wear it for a few days to several weeks. The third step is rehabilitation, once the pain and swelling have improved. You will do exercises to improve your range of motion and strengthen your muscles. You may need surgery if you injure the tissues or nerves around the shoulder or if you get repeated dislocations. A dislocation can make your shoulder unstable. When that happens, it takes less force to dislocate it. This means that there is a higher risk of it happening again. Your health care provider may ask you to continue doing some exercises to prevent another dislocation."
Dislocations,https://medlineplus.gov/dislocations.html,Dislocations are joint injuries that force bones out of position. A dislocation is a medical emergency. Learn about treatment and rehabilitation.," Dislocations are joint injuries that force the ends of your bones out of position. The cause is often a fall or a blow, sometimes from playing a contact sport . You can dislocate your ankles, knees, shoulders , hips, elbows and jaw. You can also dislocate your finger and toe joints. Dislocated joints often are swollen, very painful and visibly out of place. You may not be able to move it. A dislocated joint is an emergency. If you have one, seek medical attention. Treatment depends on which joint you dislocate and the severity of the injury. It might include manipulations to reposition your bones, medicine, a splint or sling, and rehabilitation. When properly repositioned, a joint will usually function and move normally again in a few weeks. Once you dislocate a shoulder or kneecap, you are more likely to dislocate it again. Wearing protective gear during sports may help prevent dislocations."
Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis,https://medlineplus.gov/diverticulosisanddiverticulitis.html,"Most people with diverticulosis don't have symptoms. If the Diverticula become inflamed or infected, that is a condition called diverticulitis."," Diverticula are small pouches that bulge outward through the colon, or large intestine. If you have these pouches, you have a condition called diverticulosis. It becomes more common as people age. About half of all people over age 60 have it. Doctors believe the main cause is a low-fiber diet. Most people with diverticulosis don't have symptoms. Sometimes it causes mild cramps, bloating or constipation. Diverticulosis is often found through tests ordered for something else. For example, it is often found during a colonoscopy to screen for cancer. A high-fiber diet and mild pain reliever will often relieve symptoms. If the pouches become inflamed or infected, you have a condition called diverticulitis. The most common symptom is abdominal pain, usually on the left side. You may also have fever, nausea, vomiting, chills, cramping, and constipation. In serious cases, diverticulitis can lead to bleeding, tears, or blockages. Your doctor will do a physical exam and imaging tests to diagnose it. Treatment may include antibiotics, pain relievers, and a liquid diet. A serious case may require a hospital stay or surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Dizziness and Vertigo,https://medlineplus.gov/dizzinessandvertigo.html,"Get the facts on symptoms, causes, and treatments for dizziness. Know how dizziness differs from vertigo, which is feeling that the room is spinning."," When you're dizzy, you may feel lightheaded, woozy, or disoriented. If you feel like you or the room are spinning, you have vertigo. These feelings may make you lose your balance . Dizziness can have many different causes. A sudden drop in blood pressure or being dehydrated can make you dizzy. Many people feel lightheaded if they get up too quickly from sitting or lying down. Certain medicines and problems with your inner ear may cause dizziness. So can motion sickness . Sometimes dizziness can be a symptom of other disorders. As people get older, they may have more health problems and take more medicines. This makes them more likely to have problems with dizziness and balance. Dizziness usually gets better by itself or is easily treated. If you are dizzy often, you should see your health care provider to find the cause. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Domestic Violence,https://medlineplus.gov/domesticviolence.html,"Did you know that every 20 seconds, someone becomes a victim of domestic violence? Get the facts on domestic and family abuse. "," What is domestic violence? Domestic violence is a type of abuse. It can be the abuse of a spouse or partner, which is also known as intimate partner violence. Or it could be the abuse of a child , older relative , or other family member. Domestic violence may include different types of abuse, such as Physical violence that can lead to injuries such as bruises or fractures (broken bones) Sexual violence , including sexual assault Emotional abuse , which includes threats, name-calling, put-downs, and humiliation. It can also involve controlling behavior, such as telling the victim how to act or dress and not letting them see family or friends. Economic abuse , which involves controlling access to money Stalking , which is repeated, unwanted contact that causes fear or concern for the safety of the victim. This can include watching or following the victim. The stalker may send repeated, unwanted phone calls or texts. Who is affected by domestic violence? It is hard to know exactly how common domestic violence is, because it's often not reported. But we do know that anyone can be affected by it. Domestic violence can happen to men or women of all different ages. It affects people with all levels of income and education. What are the signs that someone is a victim of domestic violence? If you think that a loved one might be the victim of domestic violence, learn about the different types of abuse and watch for these signs: Does your friend or loved one Have unexplained cuts or bruises? Avoid friends, family, and favorite activities? Make excuses for their partner's behavior? Look uncomfortable or fearful around their partner? Does your friend or loved one's partner Yell at or make fun of them? Try to control them by making all the decisions? Check up on them at work or school? Force them to do sexual things they don't want to do? Threaten to hurt himself or herself if the partner wants to break up? What can I do if I am a victim of domestic violence? Your safety is the most important concern. If you are in immediate danger, call 911. If you are not in immediate danger, you can Get medical care if you have been injured or sexually assaulted Call a helpline for free, anonymous help. You can contact the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 800-799-SAFE (7233) or 800-787-3224 (TTY). Find out where to get help in your community. Contact local organizations that can help you. Make a safety plan to leave. Domestic violence usually does not get better. Think about a safe place for you to go and all of the things that you will need when you leave. Save the evidence. Keep evidence of abuse, such as pictures of your injuries or threatening emails or texts. Make sure that it is in a safe place the abuser cannot access. Talk to someone you trust , such as a family member, a friend, a co-worker, or a spiritual leader Consider getting a restraining order to protect yourself How can I help someone who is a victim of domestic violence? Let your loved one know that being treated this way isn't healthy and that they are not to blame. You should Call 911 if there is immediate danger Watch for the signs of abuse. Learn about the signs and keep track of the ones that you see. Find out about local resources. Get the addresses and phone numbers of some local resources in your community. Then you'll be able to share the information if the person is ready for it. Set up a time to talk. Make sure you can have your conversation in a safe, private place. Your loved one's partner may have access to his or her cell phone or computer, so be careful about sharing information over text or email. Be specific about why you are worried. Describe the behaviors that concern you. Be as specific as possible when explaining why you are worried. Plan for safety. If your loved one is ready to leave an abusive partner, help make a plan for getting out of the relationship as safely as possible. A domestic violence counselor can help with making a safety plan. Be patient and do not judge. You should talk about your concerns with your loved one, but you need to understand that they may not be ready to talk about it. Let them know that you're available to talk at any time, and that you will listen without judging them."
Down Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/downsyndrome.html,About 1 in 700 babies are born with the birth defect known as Down Syndrome. Learn about the different Down Syndrome types and related health issues. ," Down syndrome is a condition in which a person is born with an extra copy of chromosome 21. People with Down syndrome can have physical problems, as well as intellectual disabilities. Every person born with Down syndrome is different. People with the syndrome may also have other health problems. They may be born with heart disease. They may have dementia. They may have hearing problems and problems with the intestines, eyes, thyroid, and skeleton. The chance of having a baby with Down syndrome increases as a woman gets older. Down syndrome cannot be cured. Early treatment programs can help improve skills. They may include speech, physical, occupational, and/or educational therapy. With support and treatment, many people with Down syndrome live happy, productive lives. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Drinking Water,https://medlineplus.gov/drinkingwater.html,Are you drinking enough water? How can you be sure your drinking water is safe? Learn about drinking water. ," We all need to drink water. How much you need depends on your size, activity level, and the weather where you live. The water you drink is a combination of surface water and groundwater. Surface water includes rivers, lakes and reservoirs. Groundwater comes from underground. The United States has one of the safest water supplies in the world, but drinking water quality can vary from place to place. It depends on the condition of the source water and the treatment it receives. Treatment may include adding fluoride to prevent cavities and chlorine to kill germs. Your water supplier must give you annual reports on drinking water. The reports include where your water came from and what contaminants are in it. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Drowning,https://medlineplus.gov/drowning.html,Did you know a person can drown in a puddle of water? Learn more about drowning and how to stay safe in the water. ," People drown when they get too much water in their lungs. You can drown in as little as an inch or two of water. Babies can drown in a sink or bathtub. Preschoolers are most likely to drown in a swimming pool. People who have seizure disorders are also at risk in the water. Drowning can happen quickly and silently. Drowning precautions should include Fences around pools Supervising children near any body of water, including tubs Not swimming or boating when under the influence of alcohol or sedatives Wearing life jackets when boating Learning CPR"
Drug Reactions,https://medlineplus.gov/drugreactions.html,"If you take prescription or over the counter medicines, be aware of possible drug reactions. Learn about drug interactions, side effects, and more."," Most of the time, medicines make our lives better. They reduce aches and pains, fight infections, and control problems such as high blood pressure or diabetes. But medicines can also cause unwanted reactions. One problem is interactions, which may occur between Two drugs, such as aspirin and blood thinners Drugs and food, such as statins and grapefruit Drugs and supplements, such as ginkgo and blood thinners Drugs and diseases, such as aspirin and peptic ulcers Interactions can change the actions of one or both drugs. The drugs might not work, or you could get side effects. Side effects are unwanted effects caused by the drugs. Most are mild, such as a stomach aches or drowsiness, and go away after you stop taking the drug. Others can be more serious. Drug allergies are another type of reaction. They can be mild or life-threatening. Skin reactions, such as hives and rashes, are the most common type. Anaphylaxis , a serious allergic reaction, is more rare. When you start a new prescription or over-the-counter medication, make sure you understand how to take it correctly . Know which other medications and foods you need to avoid. Ask your health care provider or pharmacist if you have questions."
Drug Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/drugsafety.html,Be safe when you take medicines. Find out about drug safety. ," In the U.S., the government's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) must approve any drug before it can be sold. This is true whether it's a prescription or an over-the-counter drug. The FDA evaluates the safety of a drug by looking at Side effects How it's manufactured Results of animal testing and clinical trials The FDA also monitors a drug's safety after approval. For you, drug safety means buying online from only legitimate pharmacies and taking your medicines correctly ."
Drug Use and Addiction,https://medlineplus.gov/druguseandaddiction.html,There are different types of treatment for drug abuse but the best is to prevent it. Understand more about substance abuse.," What are drugs? Drugs are chemical substances that can change how your body and mind work. They include prescription medicines, over-the-counter medicines , alcohol , tobacco , and illegal drugs. What is drug use? Drug use, or misuse, includes Using illegal substances, such as Anabolic steroids Club drugs Cocaine Heroin Inhalants Marijuana Methamphetamines Misusing prescription medicines , including opioids . This means taking the medicines in a different way than the health care provider prescribed. This includes Taking a medicine that was prescribed for someone else Taking a larger dose than you are supposed to Using the medicine in a different way than you are supposed to. For example, instead of swallowing your tablets, you might crush and then snort or inject them. Using the medicine for another purpose, such as getting high Misusing over-the-counter medicines, including using them for another purpose and using them in a different way than you are supposed to Drug use is dangerous. It can harm your brain and body, sometimes permanently. It can hurt the people around you, including friends, families, kids, and unborn babies . Drug use can also lead to addiction. What is drug addiction? Drug addiction is a chronic brain disease. It causes a person to take drugs repeatedly, despite the harm they cause. Repeated drug use can change the brain and lead to addiction. The brain changes from addiction can be lasting, so drug addiction is considered a ""relapsing"" disease. This means that people in recovery are at risk for taking drugs again, even after years of not taking them. Does everyone who takes drugs become addicted? Not everyone who uses drugs becomes addicted. Everyone's bodies and brains are different, so their reactions to drugs can also be different. Some people may become addicted quickly, or it may happen over time. Other people never become addicted. Whether or not someone becomes addicted depends on many factors. They include genetic, environmental, and developmental factors. Who is at risk for drug addiction? Various risk factors can make you more likely to become addicted to drugs, including Your biology. People can react to drugs differently. Some people like the feeling the first time they try a drug and want more. Others hate how it feels and never try it again. Mental health problems. People who have untreated mental health problems , such as depression , anxiety , or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are more likely to become addicted. This can happen because drug use and mental health problems affect the same parts of the brain. Also, people with these problems may use drugs to try to feel better. Trouble at home. If your home is an unhappy place or was when you were growing up, you might be more likely to have a drug problem. Trouble in school, at work, or with making friends. You might use drugs to get your mind off these problems. Hanging around other people who use drugs. They might encourage you to try drugs. Starting drug use when you're young. When kids use drugs, it affects how their bodies and brains finish growing. This increases your chances of becoming addicted when you're an adult. What are the signs that someone has a drug problem? Signs that someone has a drug problem include Changing friends a lot Spending a lot of time alone Losing interest in favorite things Not taking care of themselves - for example, not taking showers, changing clothes, or brushing their teeth Being really tired and sad Eating more or eating less than usual Being very energetic, talking fast, or saying things that don't make sense Being in a bad mood Quickly changing between feeling bad and feeling good Sleeping at strange hours Missing important appointments Having problems at work or at school Having problems in personal or family relationships What are the treatments for drug addiction? Treatments for drug addiction include counseling, medicines, or both. Research shows that combining medicines with counseling gives most people the best chance of success. The counseling may be individual, family, and/or group therapy. It can help you Understand why you got addicted See how drugs changed your behavior Learn how to deal with your problems so you won't go back to using drugs Learn to avoid places, people, and situations where you might be tempted to use drugs Medicines can help with the symptoms of withdrawal. For addiction to certain drugs, there are also medicines that can help you re-establish normal brain function and decrease your cravings. If you have a mental disorder along with an addiction, it is known as a dual diagnosis . It is important to treat both problems. This will increase your chance of success. If you have a severe addiction, you may need hospital-based or residential treatment. Residential treatment programs combine housing and treatment services. Can drug use and addiction be prevented? Drug use and addiction are preventable. Prevention programs involving families, schools, communities, and the media may prevent or reduce drug use and addiction. These programs include education and outreach to help people understand the risks of drug use. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Drugs and Young People,https://medlineplus.gov/drugsandyoungpeople.html,Did you know that drug abuse is increasing in children and teens?  Find out the facts. ," What is drug use? Drug use , or misuse, includes Using illegal substances, such as Anabolic steroids Club drugs Cocaine Heroin Inhalants Marijuana Methamphetamines Misusing prescription medicines , including opioids . This means taking the medicines in a different way than the health care provider prescribed. This includes Taking a medicine that was prescribed for someone else Taking a larger dose than you are supposed to Using the medicine in a different way than you are supposed to. For example, instead of swallowing your tablets, you might crush and then snort or inject them. Using the medicine for another purpose, such as getting high Misusing over-the-counter medicines , including using them for another purpose and using them in a different way than you are supposed to. Why are drugs especially dangerous for young people? Young people's brains are growing and developing until they are their mid-20's. This is especially true of the prefrontal cortex, which is used to make decisions. Taking drugs when young can interfere with developmental processes occurring in the brain. It can also affect their decision-making. They may be more likely to do risky things, such as unsafe sex and dangerous driving. The earlier young people start using drugs, the greater their chances of continuing to use them and become addicted later in life.Taking drugs when you are young can contribute to the development of adult health problems, such as heart disease , high blood pressure , and sleep disorders . Which drugs most commonly used by young people? The drugs that are most commonly used by young people are alcohol , tobacco , and marijuana. Recently, more young people have started vaping tobacco and marijuana. There is still a lot we don't know about the dangers of vaping. Some people have unexpectedly gotten very ill or have even died after vaping. Because of this, young people should stay away from vaping. Why do young people take drugs? There are many different reasons why a young person may take drugs, including To fit in. Young people may do drugs because they want to be accepted by friends or peers who are doing drugs. To feel good. Abused drugs can produce feelings of pleasure. To feel better. Some young people suffer from depression , anxiety , stress -related disorders, and physical pain. They may do drugs to try to get some relief. To do better in academics or sports. Some young people may take stimulants for studying or anabolic steroids to improve their athletic performance. To experiment. Young people often want to try new experiences, especially ones that they think are thrilling or daring. Which young people are at risk for drug use? Different factors may raise a young person's risk for drug use, including Stressful early life experiences, such child abuse , child sexual abuse , and other forms of trauma Genetics Prenatal exposure to alcohol or other drugs Lack of parental supervision or monitoring Having peers and/or friends who use drugs What are the signs that a young person has a drug problem? Changing friends a lot Spending a lot of time alone Losing interest in favorite things Not taking care of themselves - for example, not taking showers, changing clothes, or brushing their teeth Being really tired and sad Eating more or eating less than usual Being very energetic, talking fast, or saying things that don't make sense Being in a bad mood Quickly changing between feeling bad and feeling good Missing important appointments Having problems at school - missing class, getting bad grades Having problems in personal or family relationships Lying and stealing Memory lapses, poor concentration, lack of coordination, slurred speech, etc. Can drug use in young people be prevented? Drug use and addiction are preventable. Prevention programs involving families, schools, communities, and the media may prevent or reduce drug use and addiction. These programs include education and outreach to help people understand the risks of drug use. You can help prevent your children from using drugs through Good communication with your children Encouragement, so your children can build confidence and a strong sense of self. It also helps parents promote cooperation and reduce conflict. Teaching your children problem-solving skills Setting limits, to teach your children self-control and responsibility, provide safe boundaries, and show them that you care Supervision, which helps parents recognize developing problems, promote safety, and stay involved Knowing your children's friends NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Dry Mouth,https://medlineplus.gov/drymouth.html,"Everyone has a dry mouth (Xerostomia) once in a while. But if it's frequent, it can lead to serious health problems. Find a list of common symptoms."," Dry mouth is the feeling that there is not enough saliva in your mouth. Everyone has a dry mouth once in a while - if they are nervous, upset or under stress. But if you have a dry mouth all or most of the time, it can be uncomfortable and can lead to serious health problems. Symptoms of dry mouth include A sticky, dry feeling in the mouth Trouble chewing, swallowing, tasting, or speaking A burning feeling in the mouth A dry feeling in the throat Cracked lips A dry, rough tongue Mouth sores An infection in the mouth Dry mouth is not a normal part of aging. Causes include some medicines, radiation therapy , chemotherapy , and nerve damage. Salivary gland diseases , Sjogren's syndrome , HIV/AIDS, and diabetes can also cause dry mouth. Treatment depends on the cause. Things you can do include sipping water, avoiding drinks with caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol, and chewing sugarless gum or sucking on sugarless hard candy. NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
Dual Diagnosis,https://medlineplus.gov/dualdiagnosis.html,"Many people with a mental illness also have problems with substance abuse. This is called dual diagnosis, or co-occuring disorders. Learn more. "," What is dual diagnosis? A person with dual diagnosis has both a mental disorder and an alcohol or drug problem. These conditions occur together frequently. About half of people who have a mental disorder will also have a substance use disorder at some point in their lives and vice versa. The interactions of the two conditions can worsen both. Why do substance use disorders and mental disorders occur together? Although these problems often occur together, this does not mean that one caused the other, even if one appeared first. In fact, it can be hard to figure out which came first. Researchers think that there are three possibilities as to why they occur together: Common risk factors may contribute to both mental disorders and substance use disorders. These factors include genetics, stress , and trauma. Mental disorders can contribute to drug use and substance use disorders. For example, people with mental disorders may use drugs or alcohol to try to feel better temporarily. This is known as self-medication. Also, mental disorders may change the brain to make it more likely you will become addicted. Substance use and addiction can contribute to the development of a mental disorder. Substance use may change the brain in ways that make you more likely to develop a mental disorder. What are the treatments for dual diagnosis? Someone with a dual diagnosis must treat both conditions. For the treatment to be effective, you need to stop using alcohol or drugs. Treatments may include behavioral therapies and medicines. Also, support groups can give you emotional and social support. They are also a place where people can share tips about how to deal with day-to-day challenges. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Dwarfism,https://medlineplus.gov/dwarfism.html,"A dwarf is a person of short stature - under 4' 10"" as an adult. Many conditions can cause dwarfism but Achondroplasia causes about 70 percent. "," People with dwarfism have short stature. This means that their height is under 4' 10"" as an adult. They are usually of normal intelligence. Dwarfism most often does happen in families where both parents are of average height. More than 300 different conditions can cause dwarfism. Achondroplasia is the most common type of dwarfism. Achondroplasia is a genetic condition that affects about 1 in 15,000 to 1 in 40,000 people. It makes your arms and legs short in comparison to your head and trunk. You may also have a larger head and weak muscle tone. Other genetic conditions, kidney disease, and problems with metabolism or hormones can also cause dwarfism. The conditions that cause dwarfism can also cause other health problems. Most of them are treatable. It is important to have regular checkups throughout your life. With proper medical care, most people with dwarfism have active lives and live as long as other people."
Dystonia,https://medlineplus.gov/dystonia.html,"Dystonia is a movement disorder. It causes involuntary, often painful, contractions of your muscles. Learn about causes, symptoms, and what can help."," Dystonia is a movement disorder that causes involuntary contractions of your muscles. These contractions result in twisting and repetitive movements. Sometimes they are painful. Dystonia can affect just one muscle, a group of muscles or all of your muscles. Symptoms can include tremors , voice problems or a dragging foot. Symptoms often start in childhood. They can also start in the late teens or early adulthood. Some cases worsen over time. Others are mild. Some people inherit dystonia. Others have it because of another disease. Researchers think that dystonia may be due to a problem in the part of the brain that handles messages about muscle contractions. There is no cure. Doctors use medicines, Botox injections, surgery, physical therapy, and other treatments to reduce or eliminate muscle spasms and pain. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
E-Cigarettes,https://medlineplus.gov/ecigarettes.html,"Smoking e-cigarettes, or vaping, may not be as safe as you might think. An e-cigarette contains nicotine which is harmful to your health. Learn more."," E-cigarettes, or electronic cigarettes, are battery-operated smoking devices. They often look like cigarettes, but work differently. Using an e-cigarette is called vaping. The user puffs on the mouthpiece of a cartridge. This causes a vaporizer to heat the liquid inside the cartridge. The liquid contains nicotine, flavorings, and other chemicals. The heated liquid turns into the vapor that is inhaled. Some people think that e-cigarettes are safer than cigarettes, and that they can be used to help people quit smoking. But not much is known about the health risks of using them, or whether they do help people quit smoking. However we do know about some dangers of e-cigarettes: They contain nicotine, which is addictive They contain other potentially harmful chemicals There is a link between e-cigarette use and tobacco cigarette use in teens The liquid in e-cigarettes can cause nicotine poisoning if someone drinks, sniffs, or touches it NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
E. Coli Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/ecoliinfections.html,"E. Coli infections are caused by a bacteria. An E. Coli infection can make you feel sick. Learn about E. Coli symptoms, treatment, and more."," E. coli is the name of a type of bacteria that lives in your intestines. Most types of E. coli are harmless. However, some types can make you sick and cause diarrhea . One type causes travelers' diarrhea. The worst type of E. coli causes bloody diarrhea, and can sometimes cause kidney failure and even death. These problems are most likely to occur in children and in adults with weak immune systems. You can get E. coli infections by eating foods containing the bacteria. Symptoms of infection include Nausea or vomiting Severe abdominal cramps Watery or very bloody diarrhea Fatigue Fever To help avoid food poisoning and prevent infection, handle food safely . Cook meat well, wash fruits and vegetables before eating or cooking them, and avoid unpasteurized milk and juices. You can also get the infection by swallowing water in a swimming pool contaminated with human waste. Most cases of E. coli infection get better without treatment in 5 to 10 days."
Ear Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/eardisorders.html,Some ear disorders can result in hearing problems and deafness. Find out which conditions can affect your hearing and balance. ," Your ear has three main parts: outer, middle and inner. You use all of them in hearing. Sound waves come in through your outer ear. They reach your middle ear, where they make your eardrum vibrate. The vibrations are transmitted through three tiny bones, called ossicles, in your middle ear. The vibrations travel to your inner ear, a snail-shaped organ. The inner ear makes the nerve impulses that are sent to the brain. Your brain recognizes them as sounds. The inner ear also controls balance. A variety of conditions may affect your hearing or balance : Ear infections are the most common illness in infants and young children. Tinnitus , a roaring in your ears, can be the result of loud noises, medicines or a variety of other causes. Meniere's disease may be the result of fluid problems in your inner ear; its symptoms include tinnitus and dizziness. Ear barotrauma is an injury to your ear because of changes in barometric (air) or water pressure. Some ear disorders can result in hearing disorders and deafness ."
Ear Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/earinfections.html,Ear infections are common in children. The infection usually affects the middle ear and is called otitis media. Learn what to look out for.," Ear infections are the most common reason parents bring their child to a doctor. Three out of four children will have at least one ear infection by their third birthday. Adults can also get ear infections, but they are less common. The infection usually affects the middle ear and is called otitis media. The tubes inside the ears become clogged with fluid and mucus. This can affect hearing, because sound cannot get through all that fluid. If your child isn't old enough to say ""My ear hurts,"" here are a few things to look for Tugging at ears Crying more than usual Fluid draining from the ear Trouble sleeping Balance difficulties Hearing problems Your health care provider will diagnose an ear infection by looking inside the ear with an instrument called an otoscope. Often, ear infections go away on their own. Your health care provider may recommend pain relievers. Severe infections and infections in young babies may require antibiotics. Children who get infections often may need surgery to place small tubes inside their ears. The tubes relieve pressure in the ears so that the child can hear again. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Earthquakes,https://medlineplus.gov/earthquakes.html,Learn how to protect your family and home from the effects of an earthquake. ," An earthquake happens when two blocks of the earth suddenly slip past one another. Earthquakes strike suddenly, violently, and without warning at any time of the day or night. If an earthquake occurs in a populated area, it may cause property damage, injuries, and even deaths. If you live in a coastal area, there is the possibility of a tsunami . Damage from earthquakes can also lead to floods or fires . Although there are no guarantees of safety during an earthquake, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Eating Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/eatingdisorders.html,"Did you know that more women than men have eating disorders? Learn more about eating disorders such as bulimia, anorexia, and binge eating."," What are eating disorders? Eating disorders are serious mental health disorders. They involve severe problems with your thoughts about food and your eating behaviors. You may eat much less or much more than you need. Eating disorders are medical conditions; they are not a lifestyle choice. They affect your body's ability to get proper nutrition. This can lead to health issues, such as heart and kidney problems, or sometimes even death. But there are treatments that can help. What are the types of eating disorders? Common types of eating disorders include Binge-eating , which is out-of-control eating. People with binge-eating disorder keep eating even after they are full. They often eat until they feel very uncomfortable. Afterward, they usually have feelings of guilt, shame, and distress. Eating too much too often can lead to weight gain and obesity . Binge-eating disorder is the most common eating disorder in the U.S. Bulimia nervosa. People with bulimia nervosa also have periods of binge-eating. But afterwards, they purge, by making themselves throw up or using laxatives. They may also over-exercise or fast. People with bulimia nervosa may be slightly underweight, normal weight, or overweight. Anorexia nervosa. People with anorexia nervosa avoid food, severely restrict food, or eat very small quantities of only certain foods. They may see themselves as overweight, even when they are dangerously underweight. Anorexia nervosa is the least common of the three eating disorders, but it is often the most serious. It has the highest death rate of any mental disorder. What causes eating disorders? The exact cause of eating disorders is unknown. Researchers believe that eating disorders are caused by a complex interaction of factors. These include genetic, biological, behavioral, psychological, and social factors. Who is at risk for eating disorders? Anyone can develop an eating disorder, but they are more common in women. Eating disorders frequently appear during the teen years or young adulthood. But people can also develop them during childhood or later in life. What are the symptoms of eating disorders? The symptoms of eating disorders vary, depending on the disorder: The symptoms of binge-eating include Eating unusually large amounts of food in a specific amount of time, such as a 2-hour period Eating even when you're full or not hungry Eating fast during binge episodes Eating until you're uncomfortably full Eating alone or in secret to avoid embarrassment Feeling distressed, ashamed, or guilty about your eating Frequently dieting, possibly without weight loss The symptoms of bulimia nervosa include the same symptoms as binge-eating, plus trying to get rid of the food or weight after binging by Purging, making yourself throw up or using laxatives or enemas to speed up the movement of food through your body Doing intensive and excessive exercise Fasting Over time, bulimia nervosa can cause health problems such as Chronically inflamed and sore throat Swollen salivary glands in the neck and jaw area Worn tooth enamel and increasingly sensitive and decaying teeth . This is caused by the exposure to stomach acid every time you throw up. GERD (acid reflux) and other gastrointestinal problems Severe dehydration from purging Electrolyte imbalance , which could be too low or too high levels of sodium, calcium, potassium and other minerals. This can lead to a stroke or heart attack . The symptoms of anorexia nervosa include Eating very little, to the point of starving yourself Intensive and excessive exercise Extreme thinness Intense fear of gaining weight Distorted body image - seeing yourself as overweight even when you are severely underweight Over time, anorexia nervosa can cause health problems such as Thinning of the bones (osteopenia or osteoporosis ) Mild anemia Muscle wasting and weakness Thin, brittle hair and nails Dry, blotchy, or yellowish skin Growth of fine hair all over the body Severe constipation Low blood pressure Slowed breathing and pulse. Feeling cold all the time because of a drop in internal body temperature Feeling faint, dizzy , or weak Feeling tired all the time Infertility Damage to the structure and function of the heart Brain damage Multiorgan failure Anorexia nervosa can be fatal. Some people with this disorder die of complications from starvation, and others die of suicide . Some people with eating disorders may also have other mental disorders (such as depression or anxiety ) or problems with substance use . How is eating disorders diagnosed? Because eating disorders can be so serious, it is important to seek help if you or a loved one thinks that you might have a problem. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take a medical history and ask about your symptoms. It is important to be honest about your eating and exercise behaviors so your provider can help you. Will do a physical exam May do blood or urine tests to rule out other possible causes of your symptoms May do other tests to see whether you have any other health problems caused by the eating disorder. These can include kidney function tests and an electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG). What are the treatments for eating disorders? Treatment plans for eating disorders are tailored to individual needs. You will likely have a team of providers helping you, including doctors, nutritionists, nurses, and therapists. The treatments may include Individual, group, and/or family psychotherapy. Individual therapy may include cognitive behavioral approaches, which help you to identify and change negative and unhelpful thoughts. It also helps you build coping skills and change behavioral patterns. Medical care and monitoring, including care for the complications that eating disorders can cause Nutrition counseling. Doctors, nurses, and counselors will help you eat healthy to reach and maintain a healthy weight. Medicines, such as antidepressants , antipsychotics, or mood stabilizers, may help treat some eating disorders. The medicines can also help with the depression and anxiety symptoms that often go along with eating disorders. Some people with serious eating disorders may need to be in a hospital or in a residential treatment program. Residential treatment programs combine housing and treatment services. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Ebola,https://medlineplus.gov/ebola.html,"Ebola is a deadly disease caused by a virus. There is no known cure. Learn about the symptoms, risk factors, and latest news."," Ebola hemorrhagic fever is caused by a virus. It is a severe and often fatal disease. It can affect humans and other primates. Researchers believe that the virus first spreads from an infected animal to a human. It can then spread from human to human through direct contact with a patient's blood or secretions. Symptoms of Ebola may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure to the virus. Symptoms usually include Fever Headache Joint and muscle aches Weakness Diarrhea Vomiting Stomach pain Lack of appetite Other symptoms including rash, red eyes, and internal and external bleeding, may also occur. The early symptoms of Ebola are similar to other, more common, diseases. This makes it difficult to diagnose Ebola in someone who has been infected for only a few days. However, if a person has the early symptoms of Ebola and there is reason to suspect Ebola, the patient should be isolated. It is also important to notify public health professionals. Lab tests can confirm whether the patient has Ebola. There is no cure for Ebola. Treatment involves supportive care such as fluids, oxygen, and treatment of complications. Some people who get Ebola are able to recover, but many do not. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Ectopic Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/ectopicpregnancy.html,"In an ectopic, or tubal, pregnancy, a fertilized egg grows outside of the uterus. It can be dangerous for the mother. Know the symptoms to watch for."," The uterus, or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant. If you have an ectopic pregnancy, the fertilized egg grows in the wrong place, outside the uterus, usually in the fallopian tubes. The result is usually a miscarriage . Ectopic pregnancy can be a medical emergency if it ruptures. Signs of ectopic pregnancy include Abdominal pain Shoulder pain Vaginal bleeding Feeling dizzy or faint Get medical care right away if you have these signs. Doctors use drugs or surgery to remove the ectopic tissue so it doesn't damage your organs. Many women who have had ectopic pregnancies go on to have healthy pregnancies later. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Eczema,https://medlineplus.gov/eczema.html,"Eczema is a general term for different types of rashes. Atopic dermatitis, the most common type, is an allergic skin reaction. Read about treatments."," Eczema is a term for several different types of skin swelling. Eczema is also called dermatitis. Most types cause dry, itchy skin and rashes on the face, inside the elbows and behind the knees, and on the hands and feet. Scratching the skin can cause it to turn red, and to swell and itch even more. Eczema is not contagious. The cause of eczema is unknown. It is likely caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Eczema may get better or worse over time, but it is often a long-lasting disease. People who have it may also develop hay fever and asthma. The most common type of eczema is atopic dermatitis. It is most common in babies and children, but adults can have it too. As children who have atopic dermatitis grow older, this problem may get better or go away. But sometimes the skin may stay dry and get irritated easily. Treatments may include medicines, skin creams, light therapy, and good skin care. You can prevent some types of eczema by avoiding Things that irritate your skin, such as certain soaps, fabrics, and lotions Stress Things you are allergic to, such as food, pollen, and animals NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Edema,https://medlineplus.gov/edema.html,"Edema is swelling caused by fluid in your tissues. It can be anywhere in the body, but is often in the feet and legs. Learn the causes and treatments."," Edema means swelling caused by fluid in your body's tissues. It usually occurs in the feet, ankles and legs, but it can involve your entire body. Causes of edema include Eating too much salt Sunburn Heart failure Kidney disease Liver problems from cirrhosis Pregnancy Problems with lymph nodes , especially after mastectomy Some medicines Standing or walking a lot when the weather is warm To keep swelling down, your health care provider may recommend keeping your legs raised when sitting, wearing support stockings, limiting how much salt you eat, or taking a medicine called a diuretic - also called a water pill."
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/ehlersdanlossyndrome.html,People with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) usually have very flexible joints and stretchy skin because of weakened connective tissue. Find out more.," Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a group of inherited disorders that weaken connective tissues . Connective tissues are proteins that support skin, bones, blood vessels, and other organs. EDS usually affects your skin, joints and blood vessel walls. Symptoms include Loose joints Fragile, small blood vessels Abnormal scar formation and wound healing Soft, velvety, stretchy skin that bruises easily There are several types of EDS. They can range from mild to life-threatening. About 1 in 5,000 people has EDS. There is no cure. Treatment involves managing symptoms, often with medicines and physical therapy. It also includes learning how to protect your joints and prevent injuries."
Elbow Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/elbowinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Many things can make your elbow hurt. Common problems are tendinitis, bursitis, and arthritis. Read more about elbow injuries and elbow disorders."," Your elbow joint is made up of bone, cartilage, ligaments and fluid. Muscles and tendons help the elbow joint move. When any of these structures is hurt or diseased, you have elbow problems. Many things can make your elbow hurt. A common cause is tendinitis , an inflammation or injury to the tendons that attach muscle to bone. Tendinitis of the elbow is a sports injury , often from playing tennis or golf. You may also get tendinitis from overuse of the elbow. Other causes of elbow pain include sprains and strains , fractures (broken bones), dislocations , bursitis , and arthritis . Treatment depends on the cause."
Elder Abuse,https://medlineplus.gov/elderabuse.html,Seniors are vulnerable to physical or emotional abuse. Elder abuse can happen at home or in assisted living facilities or nursing homes. ," Many older people are victims of elder abuse. It is the mistreatment of an older person, usually by a caregiver. It can happen within the family. It can also happen in assisted living facilities or nursing homes. The mistreatment may be Physical, sexual, or emotional abuse Neglect or abandonment Financial abuse - stealing of money or belongings Possible signs of elder abuse include unexplained bruises, burns, and injuries. There may also be bed sores and poor hygiene. The person may become withdrawn, agitated, and depressed. There may be a sudden change in the person's financial situation. Elder abuse will not stop on its own. Someone else needs to step in and help. If you think that an older person is in urgent danger, call 911. Otherwise, contact adult protective services. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Electrical Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/electricalinjuries.html,"Electrical injuries are caused by contact with electricity. They include burns and damage to organs, bones, muscles, and nerves. Read about first aid."," When you come in direct contact with electricity, it can pass through your body and cause injuries. These electrical injuries can be external or internal. You may have one or both types. External injuries are skin burns . Internal injuries include damage to your organs, bones, muscles, and nerves. You could also have abnormal heart rhythms and cardiac arrest. How bad your injuries are depends on how strong the electric current was, what type of current it was, how it moved through your body, and how long you were exposed. Other factors include how healthy you are, and how quickly you get treatment. Causes of electrical injuries include Lightning strikes Faulty electrical appliances Work-related exposures Contact with household wiring or power lines Accidents in small children, when they bite or suck on electrical cords, or stick objects in outlets If you get an electrical injury, you should see a doctor. You may have internal damage and not realize it."
Electromagnetic Fields,https://medlineplus.gov/electromagneticfields.html,"There are many sources of electromagnetic fields.  Some people worry about EM exposure and cancer, but research is inconclusive. Learn more."," Electric and magnetic fields (EMFs), also called radiation , are areas of energy that surround electrical devices. Everyday sources of EMFs include Power lines Electrical wiring Microwave ovens Computers Cell phones Some people worry about EMF exposure and cancer. Some studies have found a link between EMF exposure and a higher risk of childhood leukemia, but other studies have not. Other studies have not found proof that EMF exposure causes other childhood cancers. Studies in adults did not prove that EMF exposure causes cancer. Some people worry that cell (wireless) phones cause cancer or other health problems. The phones do give off radiofrequency energy (RF), a form of electromagnetic radiation. So far, scientific evidence has not found a link between cell phone use and health problems in humans. However, scientists need to do more research on this before they can say for sure. If you are worried about avoiding any possible risks, you can limit your exposure by Reducing the amount of time you spend using your cell phone Use speaker mode or a headset to place more distance between your head and the cell phone NIH: National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences"
Emergency Medical Services,https://medlineplus.gov/emergencymedicalservices.html,Emergency medical services (EMS) can save lives. 911 is an example. Be prepared for serious medical situations by learning more. ," If you get very sick or badly hurt and need help right away, you should use emergency medical services. These services use specially trained people and specially equipped facilities. You may need care in the hospital emergency room (ER). Doctors and nurses there treat emergencies, such as heart attacks and injuries. For some emergencies, you need help where you are. Emergency medical technicians, or EMTs, do specific rescue jobs. They answer emergency calls and give basic medical care. Some EMTs are paramedics - they have training to do medical procedures on site. They usually take you to the ER for more care. If you or someone you know needs emergency care, go to your hospital's emergency room. If you think the problem is life-threatening, call 911."
Emphysema,https://medlineplus.gov/emphysema.html,Emphysema is a type of COPD. COPD makes it hard to breathe. The most common cause of Emphysema is smoking. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," What is emphysema? Emphysema is a type of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). COPD is a group of lung diseases that make it hard to breathe and get worse over time. The other main type of COPD is chronic bronchitis . Most people with COPD have both emphysema and chronic bronchitis, but how severe each type is can be different from person to person. Emphysema affects the air sacs in your lungs. Normally, these sacs are elastic or stretchy. When you breathe in, each air sac fills up with air, like a small balloon. When you breathe out, the air sacs deflate, and the air goes out. In emphysema, the walls between many of the air sacs in the lungs are damaged. This causes the air sacs to lose their shape and become floppy. The damage also can destroy the walls of the air sacs, leading to fewer and larger air sacs instead of many tiny ones. This makes it harder for your lungs to move oxygen in and carbon dioxide out of your body. What causes emphysema? The cause of emphysema is usually long-term exposure to irritants that damage your lungs and the airways. In the United States, cigarette smoke is the main cause. Pipe, cigar, and other types of tobacco smoke can also cause emphysema, especially if you inhale them. Exposure to other inhaled irritants can contribute to emphysema. These include secondhand smoke , air pollution , and chemical fumes or dusts from the environment or workplace. Rarely, a genetic condition called alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency can play a role in causing emphysema. Who is at risk for emphysema? The risk factors for emphysema include Smoking. This the main risk factor. Up to 75% of people who have emphysema smoke or used to smoke. Long-term exposure to other lung irritants , such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, and chemical fumes and dusts from the environment or workplace. Age. Most people who have emphysema are at least 40 years old when their symptoms begin. Genetics. This includes alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, which is a genetic condition. Also, smokers who get emphysema are more likely to get it if they have a family history of COPD. What are the symptoms of emphysema? At first, you may have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. As the disease gets worse, your symptoms usually become more severe. They can include Frequent coughing or wheezing A cough that produces a lot mucus Shortness of breath, especially with physical activity A whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe Tightness in your chest Some people with emphysema get frequent respiratory infections such as colds and the flu . In severe cases, emphysema can cause weight loss, weakness in your lower muscles, and swelling in your ankles, feet, or legs. How is emphysema diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history and family history Will ask about your symptoms May do lab tests, such as lung function tests , a chest x-ray or CT scan , and blood tests What are the treatments for emphysema? There is no cure for emphysema. However, treatments can help with symptoms, slow the progress of the disease, and improve your ability to stay active. There are also treatments to prevent or treat complications of the disease. Treatments include Lifestyle changes , such as Quitting smoking if you are a smoker. This is the most important step you can take to treat emphysema. Avoiding secondhand smoke and places where you might breathe in other lung irritants Ask your health care provider for an eating plan that will meet your nutritional needs. Also ask about how much physical activity you can do. Physical activity can strengthen the muscles that help you breathe and improve your overall wellness. Medicines , such as Bronchodilators, which relax the muscles around your airways. This helps open your airways and makes breathing easier. Most bronchodilators are taken through an inhaler. In more severe cases, the inhaler may also contain steroids to reduce inflammation. Vaccines for the flu and pneumococcal pneumonia, since people with emphysema are at higher risk for serious problems from these diseases Antibiotics if you get a bacterial or viral lung infection Oxygen therapy , if you have severe emphysema and low levels of oxygen in your blood. Oxygen therapy can help you breathe better. You may need extra oxygen all the time or only at certain times. Pulmonary rehabilitation , which is a program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic breathing problems. It may include An exercise program Disease management training Nutritional counseling Psychological counseling Surgery , usually as a last resort for people who have severe symptoms that have not gotten better with medicines. There are surgeries to Remove damaged lung tissue Remove large air spaces (bullae) that can form when air sacs are destroyed. The bullae can interfere with breathing. Do a lung transplant . This is might be an option if you have very severe emphysema. If you have emphysema, it's important to know when and where to get help for your symptoms. You should get emergency care if you have severe symptoms, such as trouble catching your breath or talking. Call your health care provider if your symptoms are getting worse or if you have signs of an infection, such as a fever . Can emphysema be prevented? Since smoking causes most cases of emphysema, the best way to prevent it is to not smoke. It's also important to try to avoid lung irritants such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, chemical fumes, and dusts. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Encephalitis,https://medlineplus.gov/encephalitis.html,"Encephalitis is inflammation of the brain, often caused by a viral infection. It can be mild or severe. Read about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment."," Encephalitis is an inflammation of the brain. Usually the cause is a viral infection, but bacteria can also cause it. It can be mild or severe. Most cases are mild. You may have flu-like symptoms. With a mild case, you may just need rest, plenty of fluids, and a pain reliever. Severe cases need immediate treatment. Symptoms of severe cases include Severe headache Sudden fever Drowsiness Vomiting Confusion Seizures In babies, additional symptoms may include constant crying, poor feeding, body stiffness, and bulging in the soft spots of the skull. Severe cases may require a stay in the hospital. Treatments include oral and intravenous (IV) medicines to reduce inflammation and treat infection. Patients with breathing difficulties may need artificial respiration. Some people may need physical, speech, and occupational therapy once the illness is under control. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
End of Life Issues,https://medlineplus.gov/endoflifeissues.html,No one wants to think about end of life care. Help yourself and your loved ones by finding out about end of life issues. ," Planning for the end of life can be difficult. But by deciding what end-of-life care best suits your needs when you are healthy, you can help those close to you make the right choices when the time comes. End-of-life planning usually includes making choices about the following: The goals of care (for example, whether to use certain medicines during the last days of life) Where you want to spend your final days Which treatments for end-of-life care you wish to receive What type of palliative care and hospice care you wish to receive Advance directives can help make your wishes clear to your family and health care providers."
Endocarditis,https://medlineplus.gov/endocarditis.html,"Endocarditis, or infective endocarditis (IE), is inflammation of the inner lining of the heart. Learn the causes, who's at risk, and how it's treated."," Endocarditis, also called infective endocarditis (IE), is an inflammation of the inner lining of the heart. The most common type, bacterial endocarditis, occurs when germs enter your heart. These germs come through your bloodstream from another part of your body, often your mouth. Bacterial endocarditis can damage your heart valves. If untreated, it can be life-threatening. It is rare in healthy hearts. Risk factors include having An abnormal or damaged heart valve An artificial heart valve Congenital heart defects The signs and symptoms of IE can vary from person to person. They also can vary over time in the same person. Symptoms you might notice include fever, shortness of breath, fluid buildup in your arms or legs, tiny red spots on your skin, and weight loss. Your doctor will diagnose IE based on your risk factors, medical history, signs and symptoms, and lab and heart tests. Early treatment can help you avoid complications. Treatment usually involves high-dose antibiotics. If your heart valve is damaged, you may need surgery. If you're at risk for IE, brush and floss your teeth regularly, and have regular dental checkups. Germs from a gum infection can enter your bloodstream. If you are at high risk, your doctor might prescribe antibiotics before dental work and certain types of surgery. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Endocrine Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/endocrinediseases.html,The Endocrine system has eight major glands that make hormones. Diabetes is the most common endocrine disease in the USA.," Your endocrine system includes eight major glands throughout your body. These glands make hormones . Hormones are chemical messengers. They travel through your bloodstream to tissues or organs. Hormones work slowly and affect body processes from head to toe. These include Growth and development Metabolism - digestion, elimination, breathing, blood circulation and maintaining body temperature Sexual function Reproduction Mood If your hormone levels are too high or too low, you may have a hormone disorder. Hormone diseases also occur if your body does not respond to hormones the way it is supposed to. Stress, infection and changes in your blood's fluid and electrolyte balance can also influence hormone levels. In the United States, the most common endocrine disease is diabetes . There are many others. They are usually treated by controlling how much hormone your body makes. Hormone supplements can help if the problem is too little of a hormone."
Endometriosis,https://medlineplus.gov/endometriosis.html,"In endometriosis, the lining of the uterus grows outside the uterus. It can cause pain, infertility, and very heavy periods. Learn about treatments."," What is endometriosis? The uterus, or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant. It is lined with tissue (endometrium). Endometriosis is a disease in which tissue that is similar to the lining of the uterus grows in other places in your body. These patches of tissue are called ""implants,"" ""nodules,"" or ""lesions."" They are most often found On or under the ovaries On the fallopian tubes, which carry egg cells from the ovaries to the uterus Behind the uterus On the tissues that hold the uterus in place On the bowels or bladder In rare cases, the tissue may grow on your lungs or in other parts of your body. What causes endometriosis? The cause of endometriosis is unknown. Who is at risk for endometriosis? Endometriosis is most commonly diagnosed in women in their 30s and 40s. But it can affect any female who menstruates. Certain factors can raise or lower your risk of getting it. You are at higher risk if You have a mother, sister, or daughter with endometriosis Your period started before age 11 Your monthly cycles are short (less than 27 days) Your menstrual cycles are heavy and last more than 7 days You have a lower risk if You have been pregnant before Your periods started late in adolescence You regularly exercise more than 4 hours a week You have a low amount of body fat What are the symptoms of endometriosis? The main symptoms of endometriosis are Pelvic pain , which affects about 75% of women with endometriosis. It often happens during your period. Infertility , which affects up to half of all women with endometriosis Other possible symptoms include Painful menstrual cramps , which may get worse over time Pain during or after sex Pain in the intestine or lower abdomen Pain with bowel movements or urination, usually during your period Heavy periods Spotting or bleeding between periods Digestive or gastrointestinal symptoms Fatigue or lack of energy How is endometriosis diagnosed? Surgery is the only way to know for sure that you have endometriosis. First, however, your health care provider will ask about your symptoms and medical history. You will have a pelvic exam and may have some imaging tests . The surgery to diagnose endometriosis is a laparoscopy . This is a type of surgery that uses a laparoscope, a thin tube with a camera and light. The surgeon inserts the laparoscope through a small cut in the skin. Your provider can make a diagnosis based on how the patches of endometriosis look. He or she may also do a biopsy to get a tissue sample. What are the treatments for endometriosis? There is no cure for endometriosis, but there are treatments for the symptoms. Your health care provider will work with you to decide which treatments would be best for you. Treatments for endometriosis pain include Pain relievers , including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen and a prescription medicine specifically for endometriosis. Providers may sometimes prescribe opioids for severe pain. Hormone therapy , including birth control pills , progestin therapy, and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists. GnRH agonists cause a temporary menopause, but also help control the growth of endometriosis. Surgical treatments for severe pain, including procedures to remove the endometriosis patches or cut some nerves in the pelvis. The surgery may be a laparoscopy or major surgery. The pain may come back within a few years after surgery. If the pain is very severe, a hysterectomy may be an option. This is a surgery to remove the uterus. Sometimes providers also remove the ovaries and fallopian tubes as part of a hysterectomy. Treatments for infertility caused by endometriosis include Laparoscopy to remove the endometriosis patches In vitro fertilization NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Endoscopy,https://medlineplus.gov/endoscopy.html,Endoscopy is a procedure that lets your doctor look inside your body. Read more about how endoscopy works and why it's done.," Endoscopy is a procedure that lets your doctor look inside your body. It uses an instrument called an endoscope, or scope for short. Scopes have a tiny camera attached to a long, thin tube. The doctor moves it through a body passageway or opening to see inside an organ. Sometimes scopes are used for surgery, such as for removing polyps from the colon. There are many different kinds of endoscopy. Here are the names of some of them and where they look. Arthroscopy: joints Bronchoscopy: lungs Colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy: large intestine Cystoscopy and ureteroscopy: urinary system Laparoscopy : abdomen or pelvis Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy: esophagus and stomach"
Enlarged Prostate (BPH),https://medlineplus.gov/enlargedprostatebph.html,"Enlarged prostate, or benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), is a common problem in men over 50. Learn about the symptoms and treatments."," The prostate is a gland in men. It helps make semen, the fluid that contains sperm. The prostate surrounds the tube that carries urine out of the body. As men age, their prostate grows bigger. If it gets too large, it can cause problems. An enlarged prostate is also called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Most men will get BPH as they get older. Symptoms often start after age 50. BPH is not cancer, and it does not seem to increase your chance of getting prostate cancer. But the early symptoms are the same. Check with your doctor if you have A frequent and urgent need to urinate, especially at night Trouble starting a urine stream or making more than a dribble A urine stream that is weak, slow, or stops and starts several times The feeling that you still have to go, even just after urinating Small amounts of blood in your urine Severe BPH can cause serious problems over time, such as urinary tract infections, and bladder or kidney damage. If it is found early, you are less likely to develop these problems. Tests for BPH include a digital rectal exam, blood and imaging tests, a urine flow study, and examination with a scope called a cystoscope. Treatments include watchful waiting, medicines, nonsurgical procedures, and surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Environmental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/environmentalhealth.html,"There are hidden dangers in the environment that can affect our health.  Find out about environmental health, including man-made and natural risks. "," Our environment affects our health. If parts of the environment, like the air , water , or soil become polluted, it can lead to health problems. For example, asthma pollutants and chemicals in the air or in the home can trigger asthma attacks. Some environmental risks are a part of the natural world, like radon in the soil. Others are the result of human activities, like lead poisoning from paint, or exposure to asbestos or mercury from mining or industrial use. NIH: National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences"
Eosinophilic Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/eosinophilicdisorders.html,"Eosinophils, a type of white blood cell, fight infections and play a role in allergic reactions. In eosinophilic disorders, too many cells build up."," Eosinophils are a type of white blood cell. They help fight off infections and play a role in your body's immune response. They can also build up and cause inflammation. Normally your blood doesn't have a large number of eosinophils. Your body may produce more of them in response to Allergic disorders Skin conditions Parasitic and fungal infections Autoimmune diseases Some cancers Bone marrow disorders In some conditions, the eosinophils can move outside the bloodstream and build up in organs and tissues. This can happen in many different parts of the body, including the esophagus , heart, lungs, blood, and intestines. Treatment of eosinophilic disorders can vary, depending on the cause and which part of the body is affected. Steroids are often part of the treatment."
Eosinophilic Esophagitis,https://medlineplus.gov/eosinophilicesophagitis.html,"Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a disease in which eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) build up in your esophagus. It causes damage and inflammation. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, treatment."," What is eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE)? Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a chronic disease of the esophagus. Your esophagus is the muscular tube that carries food and liquids from your mouth to the stomach. If you have EoE, white blood cells called eosinophils build up in your esophagus. This causes damage and inflammation, which can cause pain and may lead to trouble swallowing and food getting stuck in your throat. EoE is rare. But because it is a newly recognized disease, more people are now getting diagnosed with it. Some people who think that they have reflux (GERD) may actually have EoE. What causes eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE)? Researchers are not certain about the exact cause of EoE. They think that it is an immune system/allergic reaction to foods or to substances in your environment, such as dust mites, animal dander, pollen, and molds. Certain genes may also play a role in EoE. Who is at risk for eosinophilic esophagitis(EoE)? EoE can affect anyone, but it is more common in people who Are male Are white Have other allergic diseases, such as hay fever , eczema , asthma and food allergies Have family members with EoE What are the symptoms of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE)? The most common symptoms of EoE can depend on your age. In infants and toddlers: Feeding problems Vomiting Poor weight gain and growth Reflux that does not get better with medicines In older children: Vomiting Abdominal pain Trouble swallowing , especially with solid foods Reflux that does not get better with medicines Poor appetite In adults: Trouble swallowing, especially with solid foods Food getting stuck in the esophagus Reflux that does not get better with medicines Heartburn Chest pain How is eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) diagnosed? To diagnose EoE, your doctor will Ask about your symptoms and medical history. Since other conditions can have the same symptoms of EoE, it is important for your doctor to take a thorough history. Do an upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy. An endoscope is a long, flexible tube with a light and camera at the end of it. Your doctor will run the endoscope down your esophagus and look at it. Some signs that you might have EoE include white spots, rings, narrowing, and inflammation in the esophagus. However, not everyone with EoE has those signs, and sometimes they can be signs of a different esophagus disorder . Do a biopsy. During the endoscopy, the doctor will take small tissue samples from your esophagus. The samples will be checked for a high number of eosinophils. This is the only way to make a diagnosis of EoE. Do other tests as needed. You may have blood tests to check for other conditions. If you do have EoE, you may have blood or other types of tests to check for specific allergies. What are the treatments for eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE)? There is no cure for EoE. Treatments can manage your symptoms and prevent further damage. The two main types of treatments are medicines and diet. Medicines used to treat EoE are Steroids, which can help control inflammation. These are usually topical steroids, which you swallow either from an inhaler or as a liquid. Sometimes doctors prescribe oral steroids (pills) to treat people who have serious swallowing problems or weight loss. Acid suppressors such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which may help with reflux symptoms and decrease inflammation. Dietary changes for EoE include Elimination diet. If you are on an elimination diet, you stop eating and drinking certain foods and beverages for several weeks. If you are feeling better, you add the foods back to your diet one at a time. You have repeat endoscopies to see whether or not you are tolerating those foods. There are different types of elimination diets: With one type, you first have an allergy test. Then you stop eating and drinking the foods you are allergic to. For another type, you eliminate foods and drinks that commonly cause allergies, such as dairy products, egg, wheat, soy, peanuts, tree nuts and fish/shellfish. Elemental diet. With this diet, you stop eating and drinking all proteins. Instead, you drink an amino acid formula. Some people who do not like the taste of the formula use a feeding tube instead. If your symptoms and inflammation go away completely, you may be able to try adding foods back one at a time, to see whether you can tolerate them. Which treatment your health care provider suggests depends on different factors, including your age. Some people may use more than one kind of treatment. Researchers are still trying to understand EoE and how best to treat it. If your treatment is not working well enough and you have narrowing of the esophagus, you may need dilation. This is a procedure to stretch the esophagus. This makes it easier for you to swallow."
Epilepsy,https://medlineplus.gov/epilepsy.html,"Epilepsy is a brain disorder that causes people to have seizures. The seizures may be mild or severe.  Learn about causes, diagnosis, and treatment."," Epilepsy is a brain disorder that causes people to have recurring seizures . The seizures happen when clusters of nerve cells, or neurons, in the brain send out the wrong signals. People may have strange sensations and emotions or behave strangely. They may have violent muscle spasms or lose consciousness. Epilepsy has many possible causes, including illness, brain injury, and abnormal brain development. In many cases, the cause is unknown. Doctors use brain scans and other tests to diagnose epilepsy. It is important to start treatment right away. There is no cure for epilepsy, but medicines can control seizures for most people. When medicines are not working well, surgery or implanted devices such as vagus nerve stimulators may help. Special diets can help some children with epilepsy. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Erectile Dysfunction,https://medlineplus.gov/erectiledysfunction.html,"Men with erectile dysfunction (ED), or impotence, have trouble getting or keeping an erection. It is more common in older men. Learn about treatment."," Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common type of male sexual dysfunction. It is when a man has trouble getting or keeping an erection. ED becomes more common as you get older. But it's not a natural part of aging. Some people have trouble speaking with their doctors about sex. But if you have ED, you should tell your doctor. ED can be a sign of health problems. It may mean your blood vessels are clogged. It may mean you have nerve damage from diabetes. If you don't see your doctor, these problems will go untreated. Your doctor can offer several new treatments for ED. For many men, the answer is as simple as taking a pill. Getting more exercise, losing weight, or stopping smoking may also help. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Ergonomics,https://medlineplus.gov/ergonomics.html,"Ergonomics is a science that helps improve products, processes and tools to help people work and live better and to prevent injury. Find out how."," Ergonomics looks at what kind of work you do, what tools you use and your whole job environment. The aim is to find the best fit between you and your job conditions. Examples of ergonomic changes to your work might include Adjusting the position of your computer keyboard to prevent carpal tunnel syndrome Being sure that the height of your desk chair allows your feet to rest flat on floor Learning the right way to lift heavy objects to prevent back injuries Using handle coatings or special gloves to suppress vibrations from power tools Making sure that you have good posture in whatever you do, whether it is sitting in front of a computer, standing at a checkout, or walking around a warehouse No matter what the job is, the goal is to make sure that you are safe, comfortable, and less prone to work-related injuries."
Esophageal Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/esophagealcancer.html,Early esophageal cancer does not have symptoms. Factors that increase risk include heavy drinking and smoking. Learn how you can reduce your risk. ," The esophagus is a hollow tube that carries food and liquids from your throat to your stomach. Early esophageal cancer usually does not cause symptoms. Later, you may have symptoms such as Painful or difficult swallowing Weight loss A hoarse voice or cough that doesn't go away You're at greater risk for getting esophageal cancer if you smoke, drink heavily, or have acid reflux . Your risk also goes up as you age Your doctor uses imaging tests and a biopsy to diagnose esophageal cancer. Treatments include surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. You might also need nutritional support , since the cancer or treatment may make it hard to swallow. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Esophagus Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/esophagusdisorders.html,"You esophagus is the tube that carries food and liquids from your mouth to your stomach. Esophagus problems include GERD (reflux), cancer, esophagitis, and spasms. Learn about symptoms and treatments."," The esophagus is the muscular tube that carries food and liquids from your mouth to the stomach. You may not be aware of your esophagus until you swallow something too large, too hot, or too cold. You may also notice it when something is wrong. You may feel pain or have trouble swallowing . The most common problem with the esophagus is GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease). With GERD, a muscle at the end of your esophagus does not close properly. This allows stomach contents to leak back, or reflux, into the esophagus and irritate it. Over time, GERD can cause damage to the esophagus. Other problems include heartburn , cancer , and eosinophilic esophagitis . Doctors may use various tests to make a diagnosis. These include imaging tests, an upper endoscopy, and a biopsy. Treatment depends on the problem. Some problems get better with over-the-counter medicines or changes in diet. Others may need prescription medicines or surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Evaluating Health Information,https://medlineplus.gov/evaluatinghealthinformation.html,How do you know if health information you read can be trusted? Evaluating health information helps you know if the source is reliable. Learn more. ," Millions of consumers get health information from magazines, TV or the Internet. Some of the information is reliable and up to date; some is not. How can you tell the good from the bad? First, consider the source. If you use the Web, look for an ""about us"" page. Check to see who runs the site: Is it a branch of the government, a university, a health organization, a hospital or a business? Focus on quality. Does the site have an editorial board? Is the information reviewed before it is posted? Be skeptical. Things that sound too good to be true often are. You want current, unbiased information based on research . NIH: National Library of Medicine"
Exercise and Physical Fitness,https://medlineplus.gov/exerciseandphysicalfitness.html,Exercise is one of the most important things you can do for your health. The key is to find the right exercise for you. Get the facts about fitness.," Regular exercise is one of the best things you can do for your health. It has many benefits , including improving your overall health and fitness, and reducing your risk for many chronic diseases. There are many different types of exercise; it is important that you pick the right types for you. Most people benefit from a combination of them: Endurance, or aerobic, activities increase your breathing and heart rate. They keep your heart, lungs, and circulatory system healthy and improve your overall fitness. Examples include brisk walking, jogging, swimming, and biking. Strength, or resistance training, exercises make your muscles stronger. Some examples are lifting weights and using a resistance band. Balance exercises can make it easier to walk on uneven surfaces and help prevent falls. To improve your balance, try tai chi or exercises like standing on one leg. Flexibility exercises stretch your muscles and can help your body stay limber. Yoga and doing various stretches can make you more flexible. Fitting regular exercise into your daily schedule may seem difficult at first. But you can start slowly, and break your exercise time into chunks. Even doing ten minutes at a time is fine. You can work your way up to doing the recommended amount of exercise. How much exercise you need depends on your age and health. Other things that you can do to make the most of your workouts include Choosing activities that work all the different parts of the body, including your core (muscles around your back, abdomen, and pelvis). Good core strength improves balance and stability and helps to prevent lower back injury. Choosing activities that you enjoy. It's easier to make exercise a regular part of your life if you have fun doing it. Exercising safely , with proper equipment, to prevent injuries . Also, listen to your body and don't overdo it. Giving yourself goals. The goals should challenge you, but also be realistic. It's also helpful to reward yourself when you reach your goals. The rewards could be something big, like new workout gear, or something smaller, such as movie tickets."
Exercise for Children,https://medlineplus.gov/exerciseforchildren.html,"Your child needs plenty of exercise to be healthy. Find out about the right amount of exercise for your child, safe exercise, and more."," Like adults, kids need exercise. Most children need at least an hour of physical activity every day. Regular exercise has many benefits for children. It can help them Feel less stressed Feel better about themselves Feel more ready to learn in school Keep a healthy weight Build and keep healthy bones, muscles and joints Sleep better at night As kids spend more time watching TV, they spend less time running and playing. Parents should limit TV, video game and computer time. Parents can set a good example by being active themselves. Exercising together can be fun for everyone. Competitive sports can help kids stay fit. Walking or biking to school, dancing, bowling and yoga are some other ways for kids to get exercise."
Exercise for Older Adults,https://medlineplus.gov/exerciseforolderadults.html,"As we age, exercise becomes more challenging. But it is important for older adults to get enough exercise. How much exercise do you need? Find out."," Exercise and physical activity are good for just about everyone, including older adults. There are four main types and each type is different. Doing them all will give you more benefits . Endurance, or aerobic, activities increase your breathing and heart rate. Brisk walking or jogging, dancing, swimming, and biking are examples. Strength exercises make your muscles stronger. Lifting weights or using a resistance band can build strength. Balance exercises help prevent falls Flexibility exercises stretch your muscles and can help your body stay limber If you have not been active, you can start slowly and work up to your goal. How much exercise you need depends on your age and health. Check with your health care provider on what is right for you. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Eye Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/eyecancer.html,"Eye cancer is rare. Learn about symptoms, treatments and the different types, including retinoblastoma. It most often affects young children."," Cancer of the eye is uncommon. It can affect the outer parts of the eye, such as the eyelid, which are made up of muscles, skin and nerves. If the cancer starts inside the eyeball it's called intraocular cancer. The most common intraocular cancers in adults are melanoma and lymphoma. The most common eye cancer in children is retinoblastoma, which starts in the cells of the retina. Cancer can also spread to the eye from other parts of the body. Treatment for eye cancer varies by the type and by how advanced it is. It may include surgery, radiation therapy, freezing or heat therapy, or laser therapy."
Eye Care,https://medlineplus.gov/eyecare.html,"Your eyes are an important part of your health. You should get your eyes checked as often as your health care provider recommends it, or if you have any new vision problems. Learn more on how to care "," Your eyes are an important part of your health. Most people rely on their eyes to see and make sense of the world around them. But some eye diseases can lead to vision loss , so it is important to identify and treat eye diseases as early as possible. You should get your eyes checked as often as your health care provider recommends it, or if you have any new vision problems. And just as it is important to keep your body healthy, you also need to keep your eyes healthy. Eye Care Tips There are things you can do to help keep your eyes healthy and make sure you are seeing your best: Eat a healthy, balanced diet. Your diet should include plenty or fruits and vegetables, especially deep yellow and green leafy vegetables. Eating fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, and halibut can also help your eyes. Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight or having obesity increases your risk of developing diabetes. Having diabetes puts you at higher risk of getting diabetic retinopathy or glaucoma . Get regular exercise. Exercise may help to prevent or control diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol. These diseases can lead to some eye or vision problems. So if you exercise regularly, you can lower your risk of getting these eye and vision problems. Wear sunglasses. Sun exposure can damage your eyes and raise your risk of cataracts and age-related macular degeneration . Protect your eyes by using sunglasses that block out 99 to 100% of both UV-A and UV-B radiation. Wear protective eye wear. To prevent eye injuries , you need eye protection when playing certain sports, working in jobs such as factory work and construction, and doing repairs or projects in your home. Avoid smoking. Smoking increases the risk of developing age-related eye diseases such as macular degeneration and cataracts and can damage the optic nerve . Know your family medical history. Some eye diseases are inherited, so it is important to find out whether anyone in your family has had them. This can help you determine if you are at higher risk of developing an eye disease. Know your other risk factors. As you get older, you are at higher risk of developing age-related eye diseases and conditions. It is important to know you risk factors because you may be able to lower your risk by changing some behaviors. If you wear contacts, take steps to prevent eye infections. Wash your hands well before you put in or take out your contact lenses. Also follow the instructions on how to properly clean them, and replace them when needed. Give your eyes a rest. If you spend a lot of time using a computer, you can forget to blink your eyes and your eyes can get tired. To reduce eyestrain, try the 20-20-20 rule: Every 20 minutes, look away about 20 feet in front of you for 20 seconds. Eye Tests and Exams Everyone needs to have their eyesight tested to check for vision and eye problems. Children usually have vision screening in school or at their health care provider's office during a checkup. Adults may also get vision screenings during their checkups. But many adults need more than a vision screening. They need a comprehensive dilated eye exam. Getting comprehensive dilated eye exams is especially important because some eye diseases may not have warning signs. The exams are the only way to detect these diseases in their early stages, when they are easier to treat. The exam includes several tests: A visual field test to measure your side (peripheral) vision. A loss of peripheral vision may be a sign of glaucoma. A visual acuity test, where you read an eye chart about 20 feet away, to check on how well you see at various distances Tonometry, which measures your eye's interior pressure. It helps to detect glaucoma. Dilation, which involves getting eye drops that dilate (widen) your pupils. This allows more light to enter the eye. Your eye care provider examines your eyes using a special magnifying lens. This provides a clear view of important tissues at the back of your eye, including the retina , macula, and optic nerve. If you have a refractive error and are going to need glasses or contacts , then you will also have a refraction test. When you have this test, you look through a device that has lenses of different strengths to help your eye care professional figure out which lenses will give you the clearest vision. At what age you should start getting these exams and how often you need them depends on many factors. They include your age, race, and overall health. For example, if you are African American, you are at higher risk of glaucoma and you need to start getting the exams earlier. If you have diabetes, you should get an exam every year. Check with your health care provider about if and when you need these exams."
Eye Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/eyediseases.html,"Some eye problems are minor and go away. Others can cause vision loss. Learn about diseases of the eye, including symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment."," Some eye problems are minor and don't last long. But some can lead to a permanent loss of vision . Common eye problems include Refractive errors Cataracts - clouded lenses Optic nerve disorders , including glaucoma Retinal disorders - problems with the nerve layer at the back of the eye Macular degeneration - a disease that destroys sharp, central vision Diabetic eye problems Conjunctivitis - an infection also known as pink eye Your best defense is to have regular checkups , because eye diseases do not always have symptoms. Early detection and treatment could prevent vision loss. See an eye care professional right away if you have a sudden change in vision, if everything looks dim, or if you see flashes of light. Other symptoms that need quick attention are pain, double vision, fluid coming from the eye, and inflammation. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Eye Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/eyeinfections.html,"Eye infections can be caused by bacteria, fungi, or viruses. Learn about the different types, including styes, and their symptoms and treatment."," Your eyes can get infections from bacteria, fungi, or viruses. Eye infections can occur in different parts of the eye and can affect just one eye or both. Two common eye infections are Conjunctivitis - also known as pink eye . Conjunctivitis is often due to an infection. Children frequently get it, and it is very contagious. Stye - a bump on the eyelid that happens when bacteria from your skin get into the hair follicle of an eyelash. Symptoms of eye infections may include redness, itching, swelling, discharge, pain, or problems with vision. Treatment depends on the cause of the infection and may include compresses, eye drops, creams, or antibiotics."
Eye Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/eyeinjuries.html,"Eye injuries can cause eye strain, or be serious enough to damage your vision. Read about common causes, prevention, first aid, and other treatments."," The structure of your face helps protect your eyes from injury. Still, injuries can damage your eye, sometimes severely enough that you could lose your vision. Most eye injuries are preventable. If you play sports or work in certain jobs, you may need protection. The most common type of injury happens when something irritates the outer surface of your eye. Certain jobs such as industrial jobs or hobbies such as carpentry make this type of injury more likely. It's also more likely if you wear contact lenses. Chemicals or heat can burn your eyes. With chemicals, the pain may cause you to close your eyes. This traps the irritant next to the eye and may cause more damage. You should wash out your eye right away while you wait for medical help."
Eye Movement Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/eyemovementdisorders.html,"Learn about eye movement disorders, such as strabismus, where the eyes point in different directions, and nystagmus, which causes rapid eye movements."," When you look at an object, you're using several muscles to move both eyes to focus on it. If you have a problem with the muscles, the eyes don't work properly. There are many kinds of eye movement disorders. Two common ones are Strabismus - a disorder in which the two eyes don't line up in the same direction. This results in ""crossed eyes"" or ""walleye."" Nystagmus - fast, uncontrollable movements of the eyes, sometimes called ""dancing eyes"" Some eye movement disorders are present at birth. Others develop over time and may be associated with other problems, such as injuries. Treatments include glasses, patches, eye muscle exercises, and surgery. There is no cure for some kinds of eye movement disorders, such as most kinds of nystagmus."
Eye Wear,https://medlineplus.gov/eyewear.html,"You may wear glasses or contact lenses to correct your vision, or goggles to protect your eyes. These are types of eye wear. Read about using them."," Eye wear protects or corrects your vision. Examples are Sunglasses Safety goggles Glasses (also called eyeglasses) Contact lenses If you need corrective lenses, you may be able to choose between contacts or glasses. Either usually requires a prescription. Almost anyone can wear glasses. Contact lenses require more careful handling. Many jobs and some sports carry a risk of eye injury . Thousands of children and adults get eye injuries every year. Most are preventable with proper eye protection. Everyone is at risk for eye damage from the sun year-round. It's important to regularly use sunglasses that block out at least 99% of UV rays."
Eyelid Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/eyeliddisorders.html,"Your eyelids help protect your eyes. But they can droop, twitch, or become infected or inflamed. Learn about eyelid disorders and their treatment."," Your eyelids help protect your eyes. When you blink, your eyelids spread moisture over your eyes. Blinking also helps move dirt or other particles off the surface of the eye. You close your eyelids when you see something coming toward your eyes. This can help protect against injuries. Like most other parts of your body, your eyelids can get infected, inflamed, or even develop cancer. There are also specific eyelid problems, including Eyelids that turn in or out Eyelids that droop Abnormal blinking or twitching Treatment of eyelid problems depends on the cause."
Facial Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/facialinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Face injuries and disorders can cause pain and affect how you look. In severe cases, they affect sight, speech, breathing and ability to swallow."," Face injuries and disorders can cause pain and affect how you look. In severe cases, they can affect sight, speech, breathing and your ability to swallow. Fractures (broken bones), especially in the bones of your nose, cheekbone and jaw , are common facial injuries. Certain diseases also lead to facial disorders. For example, nerve diseases like trigeminal neuralgia or Bell's palsy sometimes cause facial pain, spasms and trouble with eye or facial movement. Birth defects can also affect the face. They can cause underdeveloped or unusually prominent facial features or a lack of facial expression. Cleft lip and palate are a common facial birth defect."
Fainting,https://medlineplus.gov/fainting.html,"Fainting, or syncope, is a brief loss of consciousness when blood flow to the brain suddenly drops. Know the causes and what to do if someone faints."," Fainting is a temporary loss of consciousness. If you're about to faint, you'll feel dizzy, lightheaded, or nauseous. Your field of vision may ""white out"" or ""black out."" Your skin may be cold and clammy. You lose muscle control at the same time, and may fall down. Fainting usually happens when your blood pressure drops suddenly, causing a decrease in blood flow to your brain. It is more common in older people. Some causes of fainting include Heat or dehydration Emotional distress Standing up too quickly Certain medicines Drop in blood sugar Heart problems When someone faints, make sure that the airway is clear and check for breathing. The person should stay lying down for 10-15 minutes. Most people recover completely. Fainting is usually nothing to worry about, but it can sometimes be a sign of a serious problem. If you faint, it's important to see your health care provider and find out why it happened."
Falls,https://medlineplus.gov/falls.html,We all fall down sometimes. Most of the time falls are not serious. But some falls can be dangerous. Learn  how to prevent falls. ," Falls can be dangerous at any age. Babies and young children can get hurt falling off furniture or down the stairs. Older children may fall off playground equipment. For older adults, falls can be especially serious. They are at higher risk of falling. They are also more likely to fracture (break) a bone when they fall, especially if they have osteoporosis . A broken bone, especially when it is in a hip , may even lead to disability and a loss of independence for older adults. Some common causes of falls include Balance problems Some medicines, which can make you feel dizzy, confused, or slow Vision problems Alcohol, which can affect your balance and reflexes Muscle weakness, especially in your legs, which can make it harder for you to get up from a chair or keep your balance when walking on an uneven surface. Certain illnesses, such as low blood pressure , diabetes , and neuropathy Slow reflexes, which make it hard to keep your balance or move out of the way of a hazard Tripping or slipping due to loss of footing or traction At any age, people can make changes to lower their risk of falling. It important to take care of your health, including getting regular eye exams . Regular exercise may lower your risk of falls by strengthening your muscles, improving your balance, and keeping your bones strong. And you can look for ways to make your house safer. For example, you can get rid of tripping hazards and make sure that you have rails on the stairs and in the bath. To reduce the chances of breaking a bone if you do fall, make sure that you get enough calcium and vitamin D . NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Family History,https://medlineplus.gov/familyhistory.html,Your family history should be more than making a family tree. It also includes learning about your family's health. Learn more. ," Your family history includes health information about you and your close relatives. Families have many factors in common, including their genes, environment, and lifestyle. Looking at these factors can help you figure out whether you have a higher risk for certain health problems, such as heart disease, stroke, and cancer. Having a family member with a disease raises your risk, but it does not mean that you will definitely get it. Knowing that you are at risk gives you a chance to reduce that risk by following a healthier lifestyle and getting tested as needed. You can get started by talking to your relatives about their health. Draw a family tree and add the health information. Having copies of medical records and death certificates is also helpful. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Family Issues,https://medlineplus.gov/familyissues.html,There is no such thing as a typical family. Learning about family issues might help you and your family resolve conflicts and communicate better. ," There are many kinds of families. Some have two parents, while others have a single parent. Sometimes there is no parent and grandparents raise grandchildren. Some children live in foster families, adoptive families, or in stepfamilies. Families are much more than groups of people who share the same genes or the same address. They should be a source of love and support. This does not mean that everyone gets along all the time. Conflicts are a part of family life. Many things can lead to conflict, such as illness, disability, addiction, job loss, school problems, and marital issues. Listening to each other and working to resolve conflicts are important in strengthening the family."
Fatigue,https://medlineplus.gov/fatigue.html,Are you tired? Find out about some of the common and uncommon causes of fatigue and how to help yourself. ," Everyone feels tired now and then. Sometimes you may just want to stay in bed. But, after a good night's sleep, most people feel refreshed and ready to face a new day. If you continue to feel tired for weeks, it's time to see your doctor. He or she may be able to help you find out what's causing your fatigue and recommend ways to relieve it. Fatigue itself is not a disease. Medical problems, treatments, and personal habits can add to fatigue. These include Taking certain medicines, such as antidepressants, antihistamines, and medicines for nausea and pain Having medical treatments, like chemotherapy and radiation Recovering from major surgery Anxiety, stress, or depression Staying up too late Drinking too much alcohol or too many caffeinated drinks Pregnancy One disorder that causes extreme fatigue is chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). This fatigue is not the kind of tired feeling that goes away after you rest. Instead, it lasts a long time and limits your ability to do ordinary daily activities. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Fatty Liver Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/fattyliverdisease.html,"With fatty liver disease, fat builds up in your liver. Learn about the two types: one is caused by heavy drinking and the other has an unknown cause."," What is fatty liver disease? Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest food, store energy, and remove poisons. Fatty liver disease is a condition in which fat builds up in your liver. There are two main types: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Alcoholic fatty liver disease, also called alcoholic steatohepatitis What is nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)? NAFLD is a type of fatty liver disease that is not related to heavy alcohol use. There are two kinds: Simple fatty liver, in which you have fat in your liver but little or no inflammation or liver cell damage. Simple fatty liver typically does not get bad enough to cause liver damage or complications. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), in which you have inflammation and liver cell damage, as well as fat in your liver. Inflammation and liver cell damage can cause fibrosis, or scarring, of the liver. NASH may lead to cirrhosis or liver cancer . What is alcoholic fatty liver disease? Alcoholic fatty liver disease is due to heavy alcohol use. Your liver breaks down most of the alcohol you drink, so it can be removed from your body. But the process of breaking it down can generate harmful substances. These substances can damage liver cells, promote inflammation, and weaken your body's natural defenses. The more alcohol that you drink, the more you damage your liver. Alcoholic fatty liver disease is the earliest stage of alcohol-related liver disease. The next stages are alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis. Who is at risk for fatty liver disease? The cause of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is unknown. Researchers do know that it is more common in people who Have type 2 diabetes and prediabetes Have obesity Are middle aged or older (although children can also get it) Are Hispanic, followed by non-Hispanic whites. It is less common in African Americans. Have high levels of fats in the blood, such as cholesterol and triglycerides Have high blood pressure Take certain drugs, such as corticosteroids and some cancer drugs Have certain metabolic disorders , including metabolic syndrome Have rapid weight loss Have certain infections, such as hepatitis C Have been exposed to some toxins NAFLD affects about 25% of people in the world. As the rates of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and high cholesterol are rising in the United States, so is the rate of NAFLD. NAFLD is the most common chronic liver disorder in the United States. Alcoholic fatty liver disease only happens in people who are heavy drinkers, especially those who have been drinking for a long period of time. The risk is higher for heavy drinkers who are women, have obesity, or have certain genetic mutations. What are the symptoms of fatty liver disease? Both NAFLD and alcoholic fatty liver disease are usually silent diseases with few or no symptoms. If you do have symptoms, you may feel tired or have discomfort in the upper right side of your abdomen. How is fatty liver disease diagnosed? Because there are often no symptoms, it is not easy to find fatty liver disease. Your doctor may suspect that you have it if you get abnormal results on liver tests that you had for other reasons. To make a diagnosis, your doctor will use Your medical history A physical exam Various tests, including blood and imaging tests , and sometimes a biopsy As part of the medical history, your doctor will ask about your alcohol use, to find out whether fat in your liver is a sign of alcoholic fatty liver disease or nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFLD). He or she will also ask which medicines you take, to try to determine whether a medicine is causing your NAFLD. During the physical exam, your doctor will examine your body and check your weight and height. Your doctor will look for signs of fatty liver disease, such as An enlarged liver Signs of cirrhosis, such as jaundice , a condition that causes your skin and whites of your eyes to turn yellow You will likely have blood tests, including liver function tests and blood count tests . In some cases you may also have imaging tests, like those that check for fat in the liver and the stiffness of your liver. Liver stiffness can mean fibrosis, which is scarring of the liver. In some cases you may also need a liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis, and to check how bad the liver damage is. What are the treatments for fatty liver disease? Doctors recommend weight loss for nonalcoholic fatty liver. Weight loss can reduce fat in the liver, inflammation, and fibrosis. If your doctor thinks that a certain medicine is the cause of your NAFLD, you should stop taking that medicine. But check with your doctor before stopping the medicine. You may need to get off the medicine gradually, and you might need to switch to another medicine instead. There are no medicines that have been approved to treat NAFLD. Studies are investigating whether a certain diabetes medicine or Vitamin E can help, but more studies are needed. The most important part of treating alcohol-related fatty liver disease is to stop drinking alcohol. If you need help doing that, you may want to see a therapist or participate in an alcohol recovery program. There are also medicines that can help, either by reducing your cravings or making you feel sick if you drink alcohol. Both alcoholic fatty liver disease and one type of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis) can lead to cirrhosis. Doctors can treat the health problems caused by cirrhosis with medicines, operations, and other medical procedures. If the cirrhosis leads to liver failure, you may need a liver transplant . What are some lifestyle changes that can help with fatty liver disease? If you have any of the types of fatty liver disease, there are some lifestyle changes that can help: Eat a healthy diet, limiting salt and sugar, plus eating lots of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains Get vaccinations for hepatitis A and B , the flu and pneumococcal disease . If you get hepatitis A or B along with fatty liver, it is more likely to lead to liver failure. People with chronic liver disease are more likely to get infections, so the other two vaccinations are also important. Get regular exercise , which can help you lose weight and reduce fat in the liver Talk with your doctor before using dietary supplements , such as vitamins , or any complementary or alternative medicines or medical practices . Some herbal remedies can damage your liver."
Female Infertility,https://medlineplus.gov/femaleinfertility.html,"Infertility is when a woman can't get pregnant after a year or keeps having miscarriages. Read about female infertility, its causes, and treatments."," Infertility means not being able to get pregnant after at least one year of trying (or 6 months if the woman is over age 35). If a woman keeps having miscarriages , it is also called infertility. Female infertility can result from age, physical problems, hormone problems, and lifestyle or environmental factors. Most cases of infertility in women result from problems with producing eggs. In primary ovarian insufficiency , the ovaries stop functioning before natural menopause. In polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the ovaries may not release an egg regularly or they may not release a healthy egg. About a third of the time, infertility is because of a problem with the woman. One third of the time, it is a problem with the man . Sometimes no cause can be found. If you think you might be infertile, see your doctor. There are tests that may tell if you have fertility problems. When it is possible to find the cause, treatments may include medicines, surgery, or assisted reproductive technologies . Happily, many couples treated for infertility are able to have babies. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/fetalalcoholspectrumdisorders.html,Drinking alcohol while pregnant can result in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. The most severe is fetal alcohol syndrome. Learn the risks and more.  ," Alcohol can harm your baby at any stage during a pregnancy. That includes the earliest stages, before you even know you are pregnant. Drinking during pregnancy can cause a group of conditions called fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). Children who are born with FASD can have a mix of problems, such as medical, behavioral, educational, and social problems. The kinds of problems they have depend on which type of FASD they have. The problems could include Abnormal facial features, such as a smooth ridge between the nose and upper lip Small head size Shorter-than-average height Low body weight Poor coordination Hyperactive behavior Difficulty with attention and memory Learning disabilities and difficulty in school Speech and language delays Intellectual disability or low IQ Poor reasoning and judgment skills Sleep and sucking problems as a baby Vision or hearing problems Problems with the heart, kidneys, or bones Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the most serious type of FASD. People with fetal alcohol syndrome have facial abnormalities, including wide-set and narrow eyes, growth problems and nervous system abnormalities. Diagnosing FASD can be hard because there is no specific test for it. The health care provider will make a diagnosis by looking at the child's signs and symptoms and asking whether the mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. FASDs last a lifetime. There is no cure for FASDs, but treatments can help. These include medicines to help with some symptoms, medical care for health problems, behavior and education therapy, and parent training. A good treatment plan is specific to the child's problems. It should include close monitoring, follow-ups, and changes when needed. Certain ""protective factors"" can help reduce the effects of FASDs and help people who have them reach their full potential. They include Diagnosis before 6 years of age Loving, nurturing, and stable home environment during the school years Absence of violence around them Involvement in special education and social services There is no known safe amount of alcohol during pregnancy. To prevent FASDs, you should not drink alcohol while you are pregnant, or when you might get pregnant. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Fetal Health and Development,https://medlineplus.gov/fetalhealthanddevelopment.html,You want your baby to be healthy as she grows during each trimester. Find out about fetal health and development. ," A normal pregnancy lasts nine months. Each three-month period of pregnancy is called a trimester. During each trimester, the fetus grows and develops. Regular medical checkups and prenatal tests are very important. They can Help keep you and your baby healthy Spot problems with your baby (if there are any). In some cases, health care professionals can treat the problem before your baby is born. But even when they cannot, it can still be helpful to know about the problem early on. That gives you time to learn about your baby's condition and prepare for any challenges you may face after the baby is born. Prevent problems during delivery . For example, if your baby is breech (bottom first or feet first, instead of head first), you may need to have a Cesarean section to avoid complications. Besides getting medical care, there are other things you can do to keep your baby as healthy as possible. It's important not to drink or smoke . Try to eat a healthy diet and make sure to take care of any health problems you have during pregnancy ."
Fever,https://medlineplus.gov/fever.html,Are you running a temperature? Learn what can cause a fever and how to know when a fever can be dangerous. ," A fever is a body temperature that is higher than normal. A normal temperature can vary from person to person, but it is usually around 98.6 F (37 C). A fever is not a disease. It is usually a sign that your body is trying to fight an illness or infection. Infections cause most fevers. You get a fever because your body is trying to kill the virus or bacteria that caused the infection. Most of those bacteria and viruses do well when your body is at your normal temperature. But if you have a fever, it is harder for them to survive. Fever also activates your body's immune system. Other causes of fevers include Medicines, including some antibiotics , blood pressure medicines , and anti-seizure medicines Heat illness Cancers Autoimmune diseases Some childhood vaccines Treatment depends on the cause of your fever. If the fever is very high, your health care provider may recommend taking an over-the-counter medicine such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Adults can also take aspirin, but children with fevers should not take aspirin. It is also important to drink enough liquids, to prevent dehydration ."
Fibromyalgia,https://medlineplus.gov/fibromyalgia.html,Fibromyalgia (FMS) is a chronic or long-term condition characterized by pain and tenderness all over the body. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," What is fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia is chronic condition that causes pain all over the body, fatigue , and other symptoms. People with fibromyalgia may be more sensitive to pain than people who don't have it. This is called abnormal pain perception processing. What causes fibromyalgia? The exact cause of fibromyalgia is unknown. Researchers think that certain things might contribute to its cause: Stressful or traumatic events, such as car accidents Repetitive injuries Illnesses such as viral infections Sometimes, fibromyalgia can develop on its own. It can run in families, so genes may play a role in the cause. Who is at risk for fibromyalgia? Anyone can get fibromyalgia, but it is more common in Women; they are twice as likely to have fibromyalgia Middle-aged people People with certain diseases, such as lupus , rheumatoid arthritis , or ankylosing spondylitis People who have a family member with fibromyalgia What are the symptoms of fibromyalgia? Common symptoms of fibromyalgia include Pain and stiffness all over the body Fatigue and tiredness Problems with thinking, memory, and concentration (sometimes called ""fibro fog"") Depression and anxiety Headaches , including migraines Irritable bowel syndrome Numbness or tingling in the hands and feet Pain in the face or jaw, including disorders of the jaw know as temporomandibular joint syndrome (TMJ) Sleep problems How is fibromyalgia diagnosed? Fibromyalgia can be hard to diagnose. It sometimes takes visits to several different health care providers to get a diagnosis. One problem is that there isn't a specific test for it. And the main symptoms, pain and fatigue, are common in many other conditions. Health care providers have to rule out other causes of the symptoms before making a diagnosis of fibromyalgia. This is called making a differential diagnosis . To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take your medical history and ask detailed questions about your symptoms Will do a physical exam May do x-rays and blood tests to rule out other conditions Will consider the guidelines for diagnosing fibromyalgia, which include A history of widespread pain lasting more than 3 months Physical symptoms including fatigue, waking unrefreshed, and cognitive (memory or thought) problems The number of areas throughout the body in which you had pain in the past week What are the treatments for fibromyalgia? Not all health care providers are familiar with fibromyalgia and its treatment. You should see a doctor or team of health care providers who specialize in the treatment of fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia is treated with a combination of treatments, which may include medicines, lifestyle changes, talk therapy, and complementary therapies: Medicines Over-the-counter pain relievers Prescription medicines that were specifically approved to treat fibromyalgia Prescription pain medicines Certain antidepressants , which may help with pain or sleep problems Lifestyle changes Getting enough sleep Getting regular physical activity. If you have not already been active, start slowly and gradually increase how much activity you get. You may want to see a physical therapist, who can help you create a plan that is right for you. Learning how to manage stress Eating a healthy diet Learning to pace yourself. If you do too much, it can make your symptoms worse. So you need to learn to balance being active with your need for rest. Talk therapy , such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), can help you learn strategies to deal with pain, stress, and negative thoughts. If you also have depression along with your fibromyalgia, talk therapy can help with that too. Complementary therapies have helped some people with the symptoms of fibromyalgia. But researchers need to do more studies to show which ones are effective. You could consider trying them, but you should check with your health care provider first. These therapies include Massage therapy Movement therapies Chiropractic therapy Acupuncture"
Fifth Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/fifthdisease.html,Fifth disease (erythema infectiosum) is a mild infection caused by parvovirus B19. It mostly affects children. Read about symptoms and what can help.," Fifth disease is a viral infection caused by parvovirus B19. The virus only infects humans; it's not the same parvovirus that dogs and cats can get. Fifth disease mostly affects children. Symptoms can include a low fever, cold symptoms, and a headache. Then you get a red rash on your face. It looks like a ""slapped cheek."" The rash can spread to the arms, legs, and trunk. Adults who get it might also have joint pain and swelling. Fifth disease spreads easily, through saliva and mucus. You can get it when an infected person coughs or sneezes. Frequently washing your hands might help prevent getting the virus. Most people become immune to the virus after having it once. Fifth disease is usually mild and goes away on its own. However, it can be serious if you Are pregnant Are anemic Have cancer or a weak immune system Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Financial Assistance,https://medlineplus.gov/financialassistance.html,Sometimes we may need help with our medical bills or health insurance premiums. Find out about financial assistance available to you. ," Health care can be costly. If you have health insurance , it usually pays at least part of your medical costs. If you don't have insurance or need help with costs that aren't covered, financial assistance might be available. Certain government programs and nonprofit organizations can help. You can also discuss concerns about paying your medical bills with your health care provider, social worker or the business office of your clinic or hospital."
Finger Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/fingerinjuriesanddisorders.html,"If you've ever smashed a finger or two accidentally, you know how hard it is to return to your daily tasks. Learn about finger injuries and disorders."," You use your fingers and thumbs to do everything from grasping objects to playing musical instruments to typing. When there is something wrong with them, it can make life difficult. Common problems include Injuries that result in fractures (broken bones), ruptured ligaments and dislocations Osteoarthritis - wear-and-tear arthritis. It can also cause deformity. Tendinitis - irritation of the tendons Dupuytren's contracture - a hereditary thickening of the tough tissue that lies just below the skin of your palm. It causes the fingers to stiffen and bend. Trigger finger - an irritation of the sheath that surrounds the flexor tendons. It can cause the tendon to catch and release like a trigger."
Fire Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/firesafety.html,Fires can spread in the home very quickly. Do you know if you're prepared in the event of a fire? Find out about fire safety.," Preventing fires is an important part of fire safety. In the United States, cooking is the main cause of home fires. Cigarettes are a big risk too - they are the leading cause of fire deaths. Here are some fire prevention tips: Don't leave the stove or oven unattended when they are on Don't let children use kitchen appliances unsupervised Don't smoke in bed Make sure your electrical appliances and cords are in good condition It is also important to be prepared in case there is a fire. Make sure that you have working smoke detectors on every floor and in every bedroom. You should also have fire extinguishers on every floor and in your kitchen. Make and practice an escape plan in case the main exit is blocked."
First Aid,https://medlineplus.gov/firstaid.html,Accidents happen! Are you prepared? Learn about what you need in your first aid kit and how to help if someone is injured. ," Accidents happen. Someone chokes on an ice cube or gets stung by a bee. It is important to know when to call 911 -- it is for life-threatening emergencies. While waiting for help to arrive, you may be able to save someone's life. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CPR ) is for people whose hearts or breathing has stopped and the Heimlich maneuver is for people who are choking. You can also learn to handle common injuries and wounds . Cuts and scrapes, for example, should be rinsed with cool water. To stop bleeding, apply firm but gentle pressure, using gauze. If blood soaks through, add more gauze, keeping the first layer in place. Continue to apply pressure. It is important to have a first aid kit available. Keep one at home and one in your car. It should include a first-aid guide. Read the guide to learn how to use the items, so you are ready in case an emergency happens."
Fistulas,https://medlineplus.gov/fistulas.html,An abnormal connection between two body parts is called a fistula. Treatment depends on the location of the fistula. Read more about them here.," A fistula is an abnormal connection between two parts inside of the body. Fistulas may develop between different organs, such as between the esophagus and the windpipe or the bowel and the vagina. They can also develop between two blood vessels, such as between an artery and a vein or between two arteries. Some people are born with a fistula. Other common causes of fistulas include Complications from surgery Injury Infection Diseases, such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis Treatment depends on the cause of the fistula, where it is, and how bad it is. Some fistulas will close on their own. In some cases, you may need antibiotics and/or surgery."
Floods,https://medlineplus.gov/floods.html,Floods can happen in the blink of an eye. Learn how to prepare yourself and your family in the event of a flood. ," Floods are common in the United States. Weather such as heavy rain, thunderstorms, hurricanes , or tsunamis can cause flooding. Flooding can also happen when a river or stream overflows its bank, when a levee is breached, or when a dam breaks. Flash floods, which can develop quickly, often have a dangerous wall of roaring water. The wall carries rocks, mud, and rubble and can sweep away most things in its path. Be aware of flood hazards no matter where you live, but especially if you live in a low-lying area, near water or downstream from a dam. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a flood, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Flu,https://medlineplus.gov/flu.html,"Do you know the difference between a cold and the flu (influenza)? Or looking for information on the ""stomach flu?"" Discover symptoms and treatment."," What is the flu? The flu, also called influenza, is a respiratory infection caused by viruses. Each year, millions of Americans get sick with the flu. Sometimes it causes mild illness. But it can also be serious or even deadly, especially for people over 65, newborn babies, and people with certain chronic illnesses. What causes the flu? The flu is caused by flu viruses that spread from person to person. When someone with the flu coughs, sneezes, or talks, they spray tiny droplets. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby. Less often, a person may get flu by touching a surface or object that has flu virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes. What are the symptoms of the flu? Symptoms of the flu come on suddenly and may include Fever or feeling feverish/chills Cough Sore throat Runny or stuffy nose Muscle or body aches Headaches Fatigue (tiredness) Some people may also have vomiting and diarrhea . This is more common in children. Sometimes people have trouble figuring out whether they have a cold or the flu. There are differences between them. The symptoms of a cold usually come on more slowly and are less severe than symptoms of the flu. Colds rarely cause a fever or headaches. Sometimes people say that they have a ""flu"" when they really have something else. For example, ""stomach flu"" isn't the flu; it's gastroenteritis . What other problems can the flu cause? Some people who get the flu will develop complications. Some of these complications can be serious or even life-threatening. They include Bronchitis Ear infection Sinus infection Pneumonia Inflammation of the heart (myocarditis), brain ( encephalitis ), or muscle tissues ( myositis , rhabdomyolysis) The flu also can make chronic health problems worse. For example, people with asthma may have asthma attacks while they have flu. Certain people are more likely to have complications from the flu, including Adults 65 and older Pregnant women Children younger than 5 People with certain chronic health conditions, such as asthma, diabetes, and heart disease How is the flu diagnosed? To diagnose the flu, health care providers will first do a medical history and ask about your symptoms. There are several tests for the flu . For the tests, your provider will swipe the inside of your nose or the back of your throat with a swab. Then the swab will be tested for the flu virus. Some tests are quick and give results in 15-20 minutes. But these tests are not as accurate as other flu tests. These other tests can give you the results in one hour or several hours. What are the treatments for the flu? Most people with the flu recover on their own without medical care. People with mild cases of the flu should stay home and avoid contact with others, except to get medical care. But if you have symptoms of flu and are in a high risk group or are very sick or worried about your illness, contact your health care provider. You might need antiviral medicines to treat your flu. Antiviral medicines can make the illness milder and shorten the time you are sick. They also can prevent serious flu complications. They usually work best when you start taking them within 2 days of getting sick. Can the flu be prevented? The best way to prevent the flu is to get flu vaccine every year. But it's also important to have good health habits like covering your cough and washing your hands often. This can help stop the spread of germs and prevent the flu. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Flu Shot,https://medlineplus.gov/flushot.html,The flu shot causes your body to develop antibodies against influenza viruses. Know more about getting vaccinated against getting the flu.," Flu is a respiratory infection caused by a number of viruses. Most people with the flu get better on their own. But it can be serious. It can cause complications and sometimes even death. Getting the flu vaccine every year is the best way to lower your chance of getting the flu and spreading it to others. The flu vaccine causes antibodies to develop in your body about two weeks after you get it. These antibodies provide protection against infection with the viruses that are in the vaccine. There are different types of flu shots, including some especially for people 65 and older. Ask your health care provider which one is right for you. Everyone 6 months of age and older should get a flu vaccine every season. People with egg allergies should check with their doctors before getting a vaccine. Other exceptions are people who have Had reactions to flu shots before Guillain-Barre Syndrome A fever Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Fluid and Electrolyte Balance,https://medlineplus.gov/fluidandelectrolytebalance.html,How do you know if your fluids and electrolytes are in balance? Find out.  ," Electrolytes are minerals in your body that have an electric charge. They are in your blood, urine, tissues, and other body fluids. Electrolytes are important because they help Balance the amount of water in your body Balance your body's acid/base (pH) level Move nutrients into your cells Move wastes out of your cells Make sure that your nerves, muscles, the heart, and the brain work the way they should Sodium , calcium , potassium , chloride, phosphate, and magnesium are all electrolytes. You get them from the foods you eat and the fluids you drink. The levels of electrolytes in your body can become too low or too high. This can happen when the amount of water in your body changes. The amount of water that you take in should equal the amount you lose. If something upsets this balance, you may have too little water ( dehydration ) or too much water (overhydration). Some medicines, vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, and liver or kidney problems can all upset your water balance. Treatment helps you to manage the imbalance. It also involves identifying and treating what caused the imbalance."
Folic Acid,https://medlineplus.gov/folicacid.html,"If you are pregnant, your doctor has probably talked to you about folic acid. This important B vitamin is also important for everyone. Learn more."," Folic acid is a B vitamin . It helps the body make healthy new cells. Everyone needs folic acid. For women who may get pregnant, it is really important. Getting enough folic acid before and during pregnancy can prevent major birth defects of her baby's brain or spine. Foods with folic acid in them include Leafy green vegetables Fruits Dried beans, peas, and nuts Enriched breads, cereals and other grain products If you don't get enough folic acid from the foods you eat, you can also take it as a dietary supplement . NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
Food Allergy,https://medlineplus.gov/foodallergy.html,Food allergy is an abnormal response triggered by your body's immune system. The reaction may be mild or severe (anaphylaxis). Learn more. ," Food allergy is an abnormal response to a food triggered by your body's immune system. In adults, the foods that most often trigger allergic reactions include fish, shellfish, peanuts, and tree nuts, such as walnuts. Problem foods for children can include eggs, milk, peanuts, tree nuts, soy, and wheat. The allergic reaction may be mild. In rare cases it can cause a severe reaction called anaphylaxis . Symptoms of food allergy include Itching or swelling in your mouth Vomiting, diarrhea, or abdominal cramps and pain Hives or eczema Tightening of the throat and trouble breathing Drop in blood pressure Your health care provider may use a detailed history, elimination diet, and skin and blood tests to diagnose a food allergy. When you have food allergies, you must be prepared to treat an accidental exposure. Wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace, and carry an auto-injector device containing epinephrine (adrenaline). You can only prevent the symptoms of food allergy by avoiding the food. After you and your health care provider have identified the foods to which you are sensitive, you must remove them from your diet."
Food Labeling,https://medlineplus.gov/foodlabeling.html,"Most packaged foods in the U.S. have food labels. The label can help you eat a healthy, balanced, diet. Learn more."," All packaged foods and beverages in the U.S. have food labels. These ""Nutrition Facts"" labels can help you make smarter food choices and eat a healthy diet. Before you read the food label, you should know a few things: Serving size is based on how much people usually eat and drink at one time Number of servings tells you how many servings are in the container. Some labels will give you information about calories and nutrients for both the whole package and each serving size. But many labels just tell you that information for each serving size. You need to think about the serving size when you decide how much to eat or drink. For example, if a bottle of juice has two servings and you drink the whole bottle, then you are getting twice the amount of sugar that is listed on the label. Percent daily value (%DV) is a number that helps you understand how much of a nutrient is in one serving. Experts recommend that you get certain amount of different nutrients daily. %DV tells you what percentage of the daily recommendation you get from one serving of a food. With this, you can figure out if a food is high or low in a nutrient: 5% or less is low, 20% or more is high. The information on a food label can help you see how a certain food or drink fits into your overall diet. The label lists, per serving, The number of calories Fats , including total fat, saturated fat, and trans fat Cholesterol Sodium Carbohydrates , including fiber , total sugar, and added sugar Protein Vitamins and Minerals Food and Drug Administration"
Food Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/foodsafety.html,"Safe steps in food handling, cooking, and storage can prevent foodborne illness. Learn the four basic steps to food safety."," Safe steps in food handling, cooking, and storage can prevent foodborne illness . There are four basic steps to food safety at home: Clean - always wash your fruits and vegetables, hands, counters, and cooking utensils. Separate - keep raw foods to themselves. Germs can spread from one food to another. Cook - foods need to get hot and stay hot. Heat kills germs. Chill - put fresh food in the refrigerator right away. In the grocery store, avoid cans that are bulging or jars that have cracks or loose lids. Check packages to be sure food hasn't reached its expiration date. United States Department of Agriculture"
Foodborne Illness,https://medlineplus.gov/foodborneillness.html,Many pathogens and bacteria can contaminate what we eat and cause food poisoning. Find out the food and germs most associated with foodborne illness.," Each year, around 48 million people in the United States get sick from contaminated food. Common causes include bacteria and viruses. Less often, the cause may be a parasite or a harmful chemical, such as a high amount of pesticides. Symptoms of foodborne illness depend on the cause. They can be mild or serious. They usually include Upset stomach Abdominal cramps Nausea and vomiting Diarrhea Fever Dehydration Most foodborne illnesses are acute. This means that they happen suddenly and last a short time. It takes several steps to get food from the farm or fishery to your dining table. Contamination can happen during any of these steps. For example, it can happen to Raw meat during slaughter Fruits and vegetables when they are growing or when they are processed Refrigerated foods when they are left on a loading dock in warm weather But it can also happen in your kitchen if you leave food out for more than 2 hours at room temperature. Handling food safely can help prevent foodborne illnesses. Most people with foodborne illness get better on their own. It is important to replace lost fluids and electrolytes to prevent dehydration. If your health care provider can diagnose the specific cause, you may get medicines such as antibiotics to treat it. For more serious illness, you may need treatment at a hospital. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Foot Health,https://medlineplus.gov/foothealth.html,Have you been taking good care of your feet? Learn how to select the right footwear and how to practice healthy foot care on the Foot Health topic.," Each step you take involves a complex network of bones, muscles, tendons, and ligaments. This, combined with all of the weight they carry, explains why feet can have problems. To keep your feet healthy Examine your feet regularly Wear comfortable shoes that fit Wash your feet daily with soap and lukewarm water Trim your toenails straight across and not too short Your foot health can be a clue to your overall health. For example, joint stiffness could mean arthritis. Tingling or numbness could be a sign of diabetes. Swelling might indicate kidney disease, heart disease, or high blood pressure. Good foot care and regular foot checks are an important part of your health care. If you have foot problems, be sure to talk to your doctor. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Foot Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/footinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Your feet take a beating during long walks, runs or daily routines. If you're feeling foot pain, learn about foot injuries and disorders right here."," Each of your feet has 26 bones, 33 joints, and more than 100 tendons, muscles, and ligaments. No wonder a lot of things can go wrong. Here are a few common problems: Bunions - hard, painful bumps on the big toe joint Corns and calluses - thickened skin from friction or pressure Plantar warts - warts on the soles of your feet Fallen arches - also called flat feet Ill-fitting shoes often cause these problems. Aging and being overweight also increase your chances of having foot problems."
Foreign Bodies,https://medlineplus.gov/foreignbodies.html,"If you've ever gotten a splinter or had sand in your eye, you've had experience with a foreign body. Many do not cause serious harm. Learn more."," If you've ever gotten a splinter or had sand in your eye, you've had experience with a foreign body. A foreign body is something that is stuck inside you but isn't supposed to be there. You may inhale or swallow a foreign body, or you may get one from an injury to almost any part of your body. Foreign bodies are more common in small children, who sometimes stick things in their mouths, ears, and noses. Some foreign bodies, like a small splinter, do not cause serious harm. Inhaled or swallowed foreign bodies may cause choking or bowel obstruction and may require medical care."
Fractures,https://medlineplus.gov/fractures.html,A fracture is a partial or complete break in the bone. There are different causes and types of fractures. Symptoms include swelling and bruising.," A fracture is a break, usually in a bone. If the broken bone punctures the skin, it is called an open or compound fracture. Fractures commonly happen because of car accidents, falls , or sports injuries . Other causes are low bone density and osteoporosis , which cause weakening of the bones. Overuse can cause stress fractures, which are very small cracks in the bone. Symptoms of a fracture are Intense pain Deformity - the limb looks out of place Swelling, bruising, or tenderness around the injury Numbness and tingling Problems moving a limb You need to get medical care right away for any fracture. An x-ray can tell if your bone is broken. You may need to wear a cast or splint. Sometimes you need surgery to put in plates, pins or screws to keep the bone in place."
Fragile X Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/fragilexsyndrome.html,Fragile X syndrome is caused by a change in a gene and is passed from parent to child. Learn about symptoms and effects of this genetic disorder. ," Fragile X syndrome is the most common form of inherited developmental disability . A problem with a specific gene causes the disease. Normally, the gene makes a protein you need for brain development. But the problem causes a person to make little or none of the protein. This causes the symptoms of Fragile X. People with only a small change in the gene might not show any signs of Fragile X. People with bigger changes can have severe symptoms. These might include Intelligence problems, ranging from learning disabilities to severe intellectual disabilities Social and emotional problems, such as aggression in boys or shyness in girls Speech and language problems, especially in boys A genetic blood test can diagnose Fragile X. There is no cure. You can treat some symptoms with educational, behavioral, or physical therapy, and with medicines. Getting treatment early can help. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Friedreich's Ataxia,https://medlineplus.gov/friedreichsataxia.html,Friedreich's ataxia (FA) is an inherited disease that damages your nervous system. Symptoms usually begin between ages 5 and 15. Learn the symptoms. ," Friedreich's ataxia is an inherited disease that damages your nervous system. The damage affects your spinal cord and the nerves that control muscle movement in your arms and legs. Symptoms usually begin between the ages of 5 and 15. The main symptom is ataxia, which means trouble coordinating movements. Specific symptoms include Difficulty walking Muscle weakness Speech problems Involuntary eye movements Scoliosis (curving of the spine to one side) Heart palpitations, from the heart disease which can happen along with Friedreich's ataxia People with Friedreich's ataxia usually need a wheelchair 15 to 20 years after symptoms first appear. In severe cases, people become incapacitated. There is no cure. You can treat symptoms with medicines, braces, surgery, and physical therapy. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Frostbite,https://medlineplus.gov/frostbite.html,Did you know that frostbite can cause permanent damage? Learn how to identify frostbite symptoms and what to do if you think you have frostbite. ," Frostbite is an injury to the body that is caused by freezing. It most often affects the nose, ears, cheeks, chin, fingers, or toes. Frostbite can permanently damage the body, and severe cases can lead to amputation . If you have frostbite, the skin in that area may turn white or grayish-yellow. It may feel firm or waxy when you touch it. The area will also feel numb. If you have symptoms of frostbite, seek medical care. But if immediate medical care isn't available, here are steps to take: Get into a warm room as soon as possible. If possible, do not walk on frostbitten feet or toes. Walking increases the damage. Put the affected area in warm - not hot - water. You can also warm the affected area using body heat. For example, use your armpit to warm frostbitten fingers. Don't rub the frostbitten area with snow or massage it at all. This can cause more damage. Don't use a heating pad, heat lamp, or the heat of a stove, fireplace, or radiator for warming. Since frostbite makes an area numb, you could burn it. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Fungal Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/fungalinfections.html,"Fungal infections, or mycoses, are caused by fungi. Many are mild and easy to treat, but others are very serious. Read about the types and treatments."," If you have ever had athlete's foot or a yeast infection , you can blame a fungus. A fungus is a primitive organism. Mushrooms, mold and mildew are examples. Fungi live in air, in soil, on plants and in water. Some live in the human body. Only about half of all types of fungi are harmful. Some fungi reproduce through tiny spores in the air. You can inhale the spores or they can land on you. As a result, fungal infections often start in the lungs or on the skin. You are more likely to get a fungal infection if you have a weakened immune system or take antibiotics. Fungi can be difficult to kill. For skin and nail infections, you can apply medicine directly to the infected area. Oral antifungal medicines are also available for serious infections."
G6PD Deficiency,https://medlineplus.gov/g6pddeficiency.html,"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a genetic disorder that is most common in males. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis and treatment."," Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a genetic disorder that is most common in males. About 1 in 10 African American males in the United States has it. G6PD deficiency mainly affects red blood cells , which carry oxygen from the lungs to tissues throughout the body. The most common medical problem it can cause is hemolytic anemia . That happens when red blood cells are destroyed faster than the body can replace them. If you have G6PD deficiency, you may not have symptoms. Symptoms happen if your red blood cells are exposed to certain chemicals in food or medicine, certain bacterial or viral infections, or stress. They may include Paleness Jaundice Dark urine Fatigue Shortness of breath Enlarged spleen Rapid heart rate A blood test can tell if you have it. Treatments include medicines to treat infection, avoiding substances that cause the problem with red blood cells, and sometimes transfusions. NIH: National Library of Medicine"
Gallbladder Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/gallbladdercancer.html,"Gallbladder cancer is difficult to diagnose because there are no symptoms in its early stages. Read about tests, treatment options and prognosis."," Your gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ under your liver. It stores bile, a fluid made by your liver to digest fat. As your stomach and intestines digest food, your gallbladder releases bile through a tube called the common bile duct. The duct connects your gallbladder and liver to your small intestine. Cancer of the gallbladder is rare. It is more common in women and Native Americans. Symptoms include Jaundice (yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes) Pain above the stomach Fever Nausea and vomiting Bloating Lumps in the abdomen It is hard to diagnose gallbladder cancer in its early stages. Sometimes doctors find it when they remove the gallbladder for another reason. But people with gallstones rarely have gallbladder cancer. Because it is often found late, it can be hard to treat gallbladder cancer. Treatment options include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, or a combination. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Gallbladder Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/gallbladderdiseases.html,Gallbladder diseases begin when something blocks the flow of bile through the bile ducts. Uncover more facts about Gallbladder and its associated conditions.," Your gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ under your liver. It stores bile, a fluid made by your liver to digest fat. As your stomach and intestines digest food, your gallbladder releases bile through a tube called the common bile duct. The duct connects your gallbladder and liver to your small intestine. Your gallbladder is most likely to give you trouble if something blocks the flow of bile through the bile ducts . That is usually a gallstone . Gallstones form when substances in bile harden. Rarely, you can also get cancer in your gallbladder. Many gallbladder problems get better with removal of the gallbladder. Fortunately, you can live without a gallbladder. Bile has other ways of reaching your small intestine."
Gallstones,https://medlineplus.gov/gallstones.html,Gallstones (Cholelithiasis) form when substances in bile harden. Stones that block bile ducts can cause gallbladder attacks. Find out who is at risk.," Your gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ under your liver. It stores bile, a fluid made by your liver to digest fat. As your stomach and intestines digest food, your gallbladder releases bile through a tube called the common bile duct. The duct connects your gallbladder and liver to your small intestine. Your gallbladder is most likely to give you trouble if something blocks the flow of bile through the bile ducts . That is usually a gallstone. Gallstones form when substances in bile harden. Gallstone attacks usually happen after you eat. Signs of a gallstone attack may include nausea, vomiting, or pain in the abdomen, back, or just under the right arm. Gallstones are most common among older adults, women, overweight people, Native Americans and Mexican Americans. Gallstones are often found during imaging tests for other health conditions. If you do not have symptoms, you usually do not need treatment. The most common treatment is removal of the gallbladder. Fortunately, you can live without a gallbladder. Bile has other ways to reach your small intestine. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Gangrene,https://medlineplus.gov/gangrene.html,"Gangrene is the death of tissues in your body, due to a lack of blood flow. It is a serious condition. Learn the symptoms, causes, and treatment."," Gangrene is the death of tissues in your body. It happens when a part of your body loses its blood supply. Gangrene can happen on the surface of the body, such as on the skin, or inside the body, in muscles or organs. Causes include Serious injuries Problems with blood circulation, such as atherosclerosis and peripheral arterial disease Diabetes Skin symptoms may include a blue or black color, pain, numbness, and sores that produce a foul-smelling discharge. If the gangrene is internal, you may run a fever and feel unwell, and the area may be swollen and painful. Gangrene is a serious condition. It needs immediate attention. Treatment includes surgery, antibiotics, and oxygen therapy. In severe cases an amputation may be necessary."
Gas,https://medlineplus.gov/gas.html,Passing gas can be embarrassing. But everyone does it. Find out the causes of gas and how to control burping and flatulence.," Everyone has gas. Most people pass gas 13 to 21 times a day. Passing gas through the mouth is called belching or burping. Passing gas through the anus is called flatulence. Most of the time gas does not have an odor. The odor comes from bacteria in the large intestine that release small amounts of gases that contain sulfur. Gas in the digestive tract comes from two sources: air that you swallow and the breakdown of undigested food by bacteria in the large intestine. Certain foods may cause gas. Foods that produce gas in one person may not cause gas in another. You can reduce the amount of gas you have by Drinking lots of water and non-fizzy drinks Eating more slowly so you swallow less air when you eat Avoiding milk products if you have lactose intolerance Medicines can help reduce gas or the pain and bloating caused by gas. If your symptoms still bother you, see your health care provider. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Gastroenteritis,https://medlineplus.gov/gastroenteritis.html,"Stomach flu (gastroenteritis) is an inflammation of the intestines that causes diarrhea, pain, vomiting or fever. Learn what you can do to prevent it."," Have you ever had the ""stomach flu?"" What you probably had was gastroenteritis - not a type of flu at all. Gastroenteritis is an inflammation of the lining of the intestines caused by a virus, bacteria, or parasites. Viral gastroenteritis is the second most common illness in the U.S. The cause is often a norovirus infection . It spreads through contaminated food or water or by contact with an infected person. The best prevention is frequent hand washing. Symptoms of gastroenteritis include diarrhea , abdominal pain , vomiting , headache , fever , and chills. Most people recover with no treatment. The most common problem with gastroenteritis is dehydration . This happens if you do not drink enough fluids to replace what you lose through vomiting and diarrhea. Dehydration is most common in babies, young children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Gastrointestinal Bleeding,https://medlineplus.gov/gastrointestinalbleeding.html,"Gastrointestinal bleeding can be a a signal of a serious disease. Find out about GI tract symptoms, tests, and related conditions. "," Your digestive or gastrointestinal (GI) tract includes the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine or colon, rectum, and anus. Bleeding can come from any of these areas. The amount of bleeding can be so small that only a lab test can find it. Signs of bleeding in the digestive tract depend where it is and how much bleeding there is. Signs of bleeding in the upper digestive tract include Bright red blood in vomit Vomit that looks like coffee grounds Black or tarry stool Dark blood mixed with stool Signs of bleeding in the lower digestive tract include Black or tarry stool Dark blood mixed with stool Stool mixed or coated with bright red blood GI bleeding is not a disease, but a symptom of a disease. There are many possible causes of GI bleeding, including hemorrhoids , peptic ulcers , tears or inflammation in the esophagus, diverticulosis and diverticulitis , ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease , colonic polyps , or cancer in the colon , stomach or esophagus . The test used most often to look for the cause of GI bleeding is called endoscopy . It uses a flexible instrument inserted through the mouth or rectum to view the inside of the GI tract. A type of endoscopy called colonoscopy looks at the large intestine. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Gaucher Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/gaucherdisease.html,"Gaucher disease is a rare, inherited disorder in which you do not have enough of an enzyme called glucocerebrosidase. Learn about the three types."," Gaucher disease is a rare, inherited disorder. It is a type of lipid metabolism disorder . If you have it, you do not have enough of an enzyme called glucocerebrosidase. This causes too much of a fatty substance to build up in your spleen, liver, lungs, bones and, sometimes, your brain. This prevents these organs from working properly. There are three types: Type 1, the most common form, causes liver and spleen enlargement, bone pain and fractures (broken bones), and, sometimes, lung and kidney problems. It does not affect the brain. It can occur at any age. Type 2, which causes severe brain damage, appears in infants. Most children who have it die by age 2. In type 3, there may be liver and spleen enlargement. The brain is gradually affected. It usually starts in childhood or adolescence. Gaucher disease has no cure. Treatment options for types 1 and 3 include medicine and enzyme replacement therapy, which is usually very effective. There is no good treatment for the brain damage of types 2 and 3. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Genes and Gene Therapy,https://medlineplus.gov/genesandgenetherapy.html,Genes are the building blocks of inheritance. Read more about genes and the currently experimental technique of gene therapy.," Genes are the building blocks of inheritance. Passed from parent to child, they contain instructions for making proteins. If genes don't produce the right proteins or don't produce them correctly, a child can have a genetic disorder . Gene therapy is an experimental technique that uses genes to treat or prevent disease. The most common form of gene therapy involves inserting a normal gene to replace an abnormal gene. Other approaches include Swapping an abnormal gene for a normal one Repairing an abnormal gene Altering the degree to which a gene is turned on or off Although there is much hope for gene therapy, it is still experimental. Genetics Home Reference"
Genetic Brain Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/geneticbraindisorders.html,"Genetic brain disorders affect the development and function of the brain. Some are inherited, some are caused by exposure, and others are both."," A genetic brain disorder is caused by a variation or a mutation in a gene. A variation is a different form of a gene. A mutation is a change in a gene. Genetic brain disorders affect the development and function of the brain. Some genetic brain disorders are due to random gene mutations or mutations caused by environmental exposure, such as cigarette smoke. Other disorders are inherited, which means that a mutated gene or group of genes is passed down through a family. They can also be due to a combination of both genetic changes and other outside factors. Some examples of genetic brain disorders include Leukodystrophies Phenylketonuria Tay-Sachs disease Wilson disease Many people with genetic brain disorders fail to produce enough of certain proteins that influence brain development and function. These brain disorders can cause serious problems that affect the nervous system. Some have treatments to control symptoms. Some are life-threatening."
Genetic Counseling,https://medlineplus.gov/geneticcounseling.html,Genetic counseling provides support to people who have or may be at risk for genetic disorders. There are many reasons to seek genetic counseling. ," Genetic counseling provides information and support to people who have, or may be at risk for, genetic disorders . A genetic counselor meets with you to discuss genetic risks. The counseling may be for yourself or a family member. Or you may get it when you are planning or expecting a baby. You may follow up with genetic testing . There are many reasons to seek genetic counseling. You may consider it if you Have a personal or family history of a genetic condition or birth defect Are pregnant or planning to be pregnant after age 35 Already have a child with a genetic disorder or birth defect Have had two or more pregnancy losses or a baby who died Have had ultrasound or screening tests that suggest a possible problem Genetics Home Reference"
Genetic Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/geneticdisorders.html,A mutation in a person's genes can cause a medical condition called a genetic disorder. Learn about the types and how they are detected.," Genes are the building blocks of heredity. They are passed from parent to child. They hold DNA, the instructions for making proteins. Proteins do most of the work in cells. They move molecules from one place to another, build structures, break down toxins, and do many other maintenance jobs. Sometimes there is a mutation, a change in a gene or genes. The mutation changes the gene's instructions for making a protein, so the protein does not work properly or is missing entirely. This can cause a medical condition called a genetic disorder. You can inherit a gene mutation from one or both parents. A mutation can also happen during your lifetime. There are three types of genetic disorders: Single-gene disorders, where a mutation affects one gene. Sickle cell anemia is an example. Chromosomal disorders, where chromosomes (or parts of chromosomes) are missing or changed. Chromosomes are the structures that hold our genes. Down syndrome is a chromosomal disorder. Complex disorders, where there are mutations in two or more genes. Often your lifestyle and environment also play a role. Colon cancer is an example. Genetic tests on blood and other tissue can identify genetic disorders. NIH: National Library of Medicine"
Genetic Testing,https://medlineplus.gov/genetictesting.html,Genetic tests are tests on blood and other tissue to findgenetic disorders. Over 2000 tests are available. Read about why you might consider testing.," What is genetic testing? Genetic testing is a type of medical test that looks for changes in your DNA. DNA is short for deoxyribonucleic acid. It contains the genetic instructions in all living things. Genetic tests analyze your cells or tissue to look for any changes in Genes , which are parts of DNA that carry the information needed to make a protein Chromosomes , which are thread-like structures in your cells. They contain DNA and proteins. Proteins , which do most of the work in your cells. Testing can look for changes in the amount and activity level of proteins. If it finds changes, it might be due to changes in your DNA. Why is genetic testing done? Genetic testing may be done for many different reasons, including to Find genetic diseases in unborn babies. This is one type of prenatal testing . Screen newborn babies for certain treatable conditions Lower the risk of genetic diseases in embryos that were created using assisted reproductive technology Find out if you carry a gene for a certain disease that could be passed on to your children. This is called carrier testing. See whether you are at increased risk of developing a specific disease. This may be done for a disease that runs in your family. Diagnose certain diseases Identify genetic changes that may be causing or contributing to a disease that you were already diagnosed with Figure out how severe a disease is Help guide your doctor in deciding the best medicine and dosage for you. This is called pharmacogenomic testing . How is genetic testing done? Genetic tests are often done on a blood or cheek swab sample. But they may also be done on samples of hair, saliva, skin, amniotic fluid (the fluid that surrounds a fetus during pregnancy), or other tissue. The sample is sent to a laboratory. There, a lab technician will use one of several different techniques to look for genetic changes. What are the benefits of genetic testing? The benefits of genetic testing include Helping doctors make recommendations for treatment or monitoring Giving you more information for making decisions about your health and your family's health: If you find out that you are at risk for a certain disease, you might take steps to lower that risk. For example, you may find out that you should be screened for a disease earlier and more often. Or you might decide to make healthy lifestyle changes . If you find out that you are not at risk for a certain disease, then you can skip unnecessary checkups or screenings A test could give you information that helps you make decisions about having children Identifying genetic disorders early in life so treatment can be started as soon as possible What are the drawbacks of genetic testing? The physical risks of the different types of genetic testing are small. But there can be emotional, social, or financial drawbacks: Depending on the results, you may feel angry, depressed, anxious, or guilty. This can be especially true if you are diagnosed with a disease that does not have effective treatments. You may be worried about genetic discrimination in employment or insurance Genetic testing may give you limited information about a genetic disease. For example, it cannot tell you whether you will have symptoms, how severe a disease might be, or whether a disease will get worse over time. Some genetic tests are expensive, and health insurance might only cover part of the cost. Or they may not cover it at all. How do I decide whether to be tested? The decision about whether to have genetic testing is complex. In addition to discussing the test with your health care provider, you can meet with a genetic counselor . Genetic counselors have specialized degrees and experience in genetics and counseling. They can help you understand the tests and weigh the risks and benefits. If you do get a test, they can explain the results and make sure that you have the support that you need."
Genital Herpes,https://medlineplus.gov/genitalherpes.html,"Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease caused by a herpes simplex virus (HSV). Learn about symptoms, testing, prevention, and treatments."," Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by a herpes simplex virus (HSV). It can cause sores on your genital or rectal area, buttocks, and thighs. You can get it from having vaginal, anal, or oral sex with someone who has it. The virus can spread even when sores are not present. Mothers can also infect their babies during childbirth. Symptoms of herpes are called outbreaks. You usually get sores near the area where the virus has entered the body. The sores are blisters which break and become painful, and then heal. Sometimes people do not know they have herpes because they have no symptoms or very mild symptoms. The virus can be more serious in newborn babies or in people with weak immune systems. Repeat outbreaks are common, especially during the first year. Over time, you get them less often and the symptoms become milder. The virus stays in your body for life. There are tests that can diagnose genital herpes. There is no cure. However, medicines can help lessen symptoms, decrease outbreaks, and lower the risk of passing the virus to others. Correct usage of latex condoms can reduce, but not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading herpes. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex."
Genital Warts,https://medlineplus.gov/genitalwarts.html,"Genital warts are a sexually transmitted disease caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Learn about what they look like, prevention, and treatment."," Genital warts are a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). The warts usually appear as a small bump or group of bumps in the genital area. They are flesh-colored and can be flat or look bumpy like cauliflower. Some genital warts are so small you cannot see them. In women, the warts usually occur in or around the vagina, on the cervix, or around the anus. In men, genital warts are less common. They may have warts on the tip of the penis, around the anus, or on the scrotum, thigh, or groin. You can get genital warts during oral, vaginal, or anal sex with an infected partner. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading HPV. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. HPV vaccines may help prevent some of the HPV infections that cause genital warts. Your health care provider usually diagnoses genital warts by seeing them. The warts might disappear on their own. If not, your health care provider can treat or remove them. HPV stays in your body even after treatment, so warts can come back. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
GERD,https://medlineplus.gov/gerd.html,"If you have painful burning in your throat, you may have GERD (Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease). Identify symptoms and learn how to treat it."," Your esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) happens when a muscle at the end of your esophagus does not close properly. This allows stomach contents to leak back, or reflux, into the esophagus and irritate it. You may feel a burning in the chest or throat called heartburn . Sometimes, you can taste stomach fluid in the back of the mouth. If you have these symptoms more than twice a week, you may have GERD. You can also have GERD without having heartburn. Your symptoms could include a dry cough, asthma symptoms, or trouble swallowing. Anyone, including infants and children , can have GERD. If not treated, it can lead to more serious health problems. In some cases, you might need medicines or surgery. However, many people can improve their symptoms by Avoiding alcohol and spicy, fatty or acidic foods that trigger heartburn Eating smaller meals Not eating close to bedtime Losing weight if needed Wearing loose-fitting clothes NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Germs and Hygiene,https://medlineplus.gov/germsandhygiene.html,Stopping the spread of germs is as easy as thoroughly washing your hands or covering your mouth when you sneeze or cough. Raise your hygiene IQ here. ," What are germs? Germs are microorganisms. This means that they can be seen only through a microscope. They can be found everywhere - in the air, soil, and water. There are also germs on your skin and in your body. Many germs live in and on our bodies without causing harm. Some even help us to stay healthy. But some germs can make you sick. Infectious diseases are diseases that are caused by germs. The main types of germs are bacteria , viruses , fungi , and parasites . How do germs spread? There are different ways that germs can spread, including Through touching a person who has the germs or making other close contact with them, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing cups or eating utensils Through breathing air after a person with the germs coughs or sneezes Through touching the feces (poop) of someone who has the germs, such as changing diapers, then touching your eyes, nose, or mouth Through touching objects and surfaces that have germs on them, then touching your eyes, nose, or mouth From mother to baby during pregnancy and/or childbirth From insect or animal bites From contaminated food , water , soil, or plants How can I protect myself and others from germs? You can help protect yourself and others from germs: When you have to cough or sneeze, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or use the inside of your elbow Wash your hands well and often. You should scrub them for at least 20 seconds. It is important to do this when you are most likely to get and spread germs: Before, during, and after preparing food Before eating food Before and after caring for someone at home who is sick with vomiting or diarrhea Before and after treating a cut or wound After using the toilet After changing diapers or cleaning up a child who has used the toilet After blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing After touching an animal, animal feed, or animal waste After handling pet food or pet treats After touching garbage If soap and water are not available, you can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol Stay home if you are sick Avoid close contact with people who are sick Practice food safety when handling, cooking, and storing food Regularly clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects"
Giant Cell Arteritis,https://medlineplus.gov/giantcellarteritis.html,Giant cell arteritis causes inflammation and narrowing of the arteries in the head. It often occurs with the disease polymyalgia rheumatica. Learn more.," Giant cell arteritis is a disorder that causes inflammation of your arteries, usually in the scalp, neck, and arms. It narrows the arteries, which keeps blood from flowing well. Giant cell arteritis often occurs with another disorder called polymyalgia rheumatica . Both are more common in women than in men. They almost always affect people over the age of 50. Early symptoms of giant cell arteritis resemble the flu: fatigue, loss of appetite, and fever. Other symptoms include Headaches Pain and tenderness over the temples Double vision or visual loss, dizziness Problems with coordination and balance Pain in your jaw and tongue Your doctor will make the diagnosis based on your medical history, symptoms, and a physical exam. There is no specific test for giant cell arteritis, but you may have tests that measure inflammation. Treatment is usually with corticosteroids . Early treatment is important; otherwise there is a risk of permanent vision loss or stroke. However, when properly treated, giant cell arteritis rarely comes back. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Giardia Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/giardiainfections.html,Giardiasis is an illness caused by a parasite. Diarrhea is the main symptom of giardia infection. Learn about who is at risk and how to treat it.," Giardiasis is an illness caused by a parasite called Giardia intestinalis. It lives in soil, food, and water. It may also be on surfaces that have been contaminated with waste. You can become infected if you swallow the parasite. You can also get it if you're exposed to human feces (poop) through sexual contact. The risk of getting giardia is higher for travelers to countries where it is common, people in child care settings, and those who drink untreated water. Diarrhea is the main symptom of giardia infection. Others include Passing gas Greasy stools Stomach cramps Upset stomach or nausea These symptoms may lead to weight loss and loss of body fluids. Some people have no symptoms at all. Symptoms of infection often last two to six weeks. Stool sample tests can diagnose it. You often need to collect several samples to test. Doctors use several drugs to treat it. The best way to prevent giardia infection is to practice good hygiene, including frequent hand washing. You should not drink water that may be contaminated. You should also peel or wash fresh fruit and vegetables before eating. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Glaucoma,https://medlineplus.gov/glaucoma.html,"Glaucoma damages the eye's optic nerve. It is more common in seniors, and can cause blindness. Read about the types, and diagnosis, and treatment."," Glaucoma is a group of diseases that can damage the eye's optic nerve . It is a leading cause of blindness in the United States. It usually happens when the fluid pressure inside the eyes slowly rises, damaging the optic nerve. Often there are no symptoms at first. Without treatment, people with glaucoma will slowly lose their peripheral, or side vision. They seem to be looking through a tunnel. Over time, straight-ahead vision may decrease until no vision remains. A comprehensive eye exam can tell if you have glaucoma. People at risk should get eye exams at least every two years. They include African Americans over age 40 People over age 60, especially Mexican Americans People with a family history of glaucoma There is no cure, but glaucoma can usually be controlled. Early treatment can help protect your eyes against vision loss. Treatments usually include prescription eyedrops and/or surgery. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Gluten Sensitivity,https://medlineplus.gov/glutensensitivity.html,"Gluten sensitivity or intolerance is different from celiac disease, though some symptoms may be similar. Find information here on gluten-free diets."," Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. It is found mainly in foods but may also be in other products like medicines, vitamins, and supplements. People with gluten sensitivity have problems with gluten. It is different from celiac disease , an immune disease in which people can't eat gluten because it will damage their small intestine. Some of the symptoms of gluten sensitivity are similar to celiac disease. They include tiredness and stomachaches. It can cause other symptoms too, including muscle cramps and leg numbness. But it does not damage the small intestine like celiac disease. Researchers are still learning more about gluten sensitivity. If your health care provider thinks you have it, he or she may suggest that you stop eating gluten to see if your symptoms go away. However, you should first be tested to rule out celiac disease. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Gonorrhea,https://medlineplus.gov/gonorrhea.html,"Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease. Men and women can get it. It doesn't always cause symptoms. Read about testing, prevention, and treatment."," Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease . It is most common in young adults. The bacteria that cause gonorrhea can infect the genital tract, mouth, or anus. You can get gonorrhea during vaginal, oral, or anal sex with an infected partner. A pregnant woman can pass it to her baby during childbirth. Gonorrhea does not always cause symptoms. In men, gonorrhea can cause pain when urinating and discharge from the penis. If untreated, it can cause problems with the prostate and testicles. In women, the early symptoms of gonorrhea often are mild. Later, it can cause bleeding between periods, pain when urinating, and increased discharge from the vagina. If untreated, it can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease , which causes problems with pregnancy and infertility. Your health care provider will diagnose gonorrhea with lab tests. Treatment is with antibiotics. Treating gonorrhea is becoming more difficult because drug-resistant strains are increasing. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading gonorrhea. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Gout,https://medlineplus.gov/gout.html,"Gout or gouty arthritis causes swollen, red, stiff joints. Gout is common but can be hard to diagnose. Get the facts on gout symptoms and treatment.  "," Gout is a common, painful form of arthritis . It causes swollen, red, hot and stiff joints. Gout happens when uric acid builds up in your body. Uric acid comes from the breakdown of substances called purines. Purines are in your body's tissues and in foods, such as liver, dried beans and peas, and anchovies. Normally, uric acid dissolves in the blood. It passes through the kidneys and out of the body in urine. But sometimes uric acid can build up and form needle-like crystals. When they form in your joints, it is very painful. The crystals can also cause kidney stones . Often, gout first attacks your big toe. It can also attack ankles, heels, knees, wrists, fingers, and elbows. At first, gout attacks usually get better in days. Eventually, attacks last longer and happen more often. You are more likely to get gout if you Are a man Have family member with gout Are overweight Drink alcohol Eat too many foods rich in purines Gout can be hard to diagnose. Your doctor may take a sample of fluid from an inflamed joint to look for crystals. You can treat gout with medicines. Pseudogout has similar symptoms and is sometimes confused with gout. However, it is caused by calcium phosphate, not uric acid. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis,https://medlineplus.gov/granulomatosiswithpolyangiitis.html,"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), previously known as Wegener's granulomatosis is a type of vasculitis, or inflammation of the blood vessels."," Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), previously known as Wegener's granulomatosis, is a rare disease. It is a type of vasculitis , or inflammation of the blood vessels. The inflammation limits the flow of blood to important organs, causing damage. It can affect any organ, but it mainly affects the sinuses, nose, trachea (windpipe), lungs, and kidneys. The cause of GPA is unknown. It can affect people at any age. Men and women are equally affected. It is more common in whites. Symptoms may include joint pain, weakness, tiredness, and cold symptoms such as a runny nose that doesn't get better. Doctors use blood tests, chest X-rays, and biopsies to diagnose GPA and rule out other causes of the symptoms. Early treatment is important. Most people improve with medicines to slow or stop the inflammation."
Growth Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/growthdisorders.html,Growth disorders affect a child's development. The pituitary gland makes growth hormone. Abnormal growth can signal a gland problem or disease. ," Does your child seem much shorter - or much taller - than other kids his or her age? It could be normal. Some children may be small for their age but still be developing normally. Some children are short or tall because their parents are. But some children have growth disorders. Growth disorders are problems that prevent children from developing normal height, weight, sexual maturity or other features. Very slow or very fast growth can sometimes signal a gland problem or disease. The pituitary gland makes growth hormone, which stimulates the growth of bone and other tissues. Children who have too little of it may be very short. Treatment with growth hormone can stimulate growth. People can also have too much growth hormone. Usually the cause is a pituitary gland tumor, which is not cancer. Too much growth hormone can cause gigantism in children, where their bones and their body grow too much. In adults, it can cause acromegaly, which makes the hands, feet and face larger than normal. Possible treatments include surgery to remove the tumor, medicines, and radiation therapy."
Guide to Good Posture,https://medlineplus.gov/guidetogoodposture.html,"Good posture is important for your health as well as you appearance. Get tips on improving your posture, whether you are sitting, standing, or moving."," Good posture is about more than standing up straight so you can look your best. It is an important part of your long-term health. Making sure that you hold your body the right way, whether you are moving or still, can prevent pain, injuries, and other health problems. What is posture? Posture is how you hold your body. There are two types: Dynamic posture is how you hold yourself when you are moving, like when you are walking, running, or bending over to pick up something. Static posture is how you hold yourself when you are not moving, like when you are sitting, standing, or sleeping. It is important to make sure that you have good dynamic and static posture. The key to good posture is the position of your spine. Your spine has three natural curves - at your neck, mid back, and low back. Correct posture should maintain these curves, but not increase them. Your head should be above your shoulders, and the top of your shoulder should be over the hips. How can posture affect my health? Poor posture can be bad for your health. Slouching or slumping over can Misalign your musculoskeletal system Wear away at your spine, making it more fragile and prone to injury Cause neck, shoulder, and back pain Decrease your flexibility Affect how well your joints move Affect your balance and increase your risk of falling Make it harder to digest your food Make it harder to breathe How can I improve my posture in general? Be mindful of your posture during everyday activities, like watching television, washing dishes, or walking Stay active. Any kind of exercise may help improve your posture, but certain types of exercises can be especially helpful. They include yoga, tai chi, and other classes that focuses on body awareness. It is also a good idea to do exercises that strengthen your core (muscles around your back, abdomen, and pelvis). Maintain a healthy weight. Extra weight can weaken your abdominal muscles, cause problems for your pelvis and spine, and contribute to low back pain. All of these can hurt your posture. Wear comfortable, low-heeled shoes. High heels, for example, can throw off your balance and force you to walk differently. This puts more stress on your muscles and harms your posture. Make sure work surfaces are at a comfortable height for you, whether you're sitting in front of a computer, making dinner, or eating a meal. How can I improve my posture when sitting? Many Americans spend a lot of their time sitting - either at work, at school, or at home. It is important to sit properly, and to take frequent breaks: Switch sitting positions often Take brief walks around your office or home Gently stretch your muscles every so often to help relieve muscle tension Don't cross your legs; keep your feet on the floor, with your ankles in front of your knees Make sure that your feet touch the floor, or if that's not possible, use a footrest Relax your shoulders; they should not be rounded or pulled backwards Keep your elbows in close to your body. They should be bent between 90 and 120 degrees. Make sure that your back is fully supported. Use a back pillow or other back support if your chair does not have a backrest that can support your lower back's curve. Make sure that your thighs and hips are supported. You should have a well-padded seat, and your thighs and hips should be parallel to the floor. How can I improve my posture when standing? Stand up straight and tall Keep your shoulders back Pull your stomach in Put your weight mostly on the balls of your feet Keep your head level Let your arms hang down naturally at your sides Keep your feet about shoulder-width apart With practice, you can improve your posture; you will look and feel better."
Guillain-Barre Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/guillainbarresyndrome.html,"Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) causes your immune system to attack your peripheral nervous system. Learn about the causes, symptoms, and what can help."," Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare disorder that causes your immune system to attack your peripheral nervous system (PNS). The PNS nerves connect your brain and spinal cord with the rest of your body. Damage to these nerves makes it hard for them to transmit signals. As a result, your muscles have trouble responding to your brain. No one knows what causes the syndrome. Sometimes it is triggered by an infection, surgery, or a vaccination. The first symptom is usually weakness or a tingling feeling in your legs. The feeling can spread to your upper body. In severe cases, you become almost paralyzed. This is life-threatening. You might need a respirator to breathe. Symptoms usually worsen over a period of weeks and then stabilize. Guillain-Barre can be hard to diagnose. Possible tests include nerve tests and a spinal tap. Most people recover. Recovery can take a few weeks to a few years. Treatment can help symptoms, and may include medicines or a procedure called plasma exchange. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Gum Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/gumdisease.html,"Many adults have some form of gum disease (also known as periodontal disease). Read about the most common gum inflammation, called gingivitis."," If you have gum disease, you're not alone. Many U.S. adults currently have some form of the disease. It ranges from simple gum inflammation, called gingivitis, to serious damage to the tissue and bone supporting the teeth. In the worst cases, you can lose teeth. In gingivitis, the gums become red and swollen. They can bleed easily. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease. You can usually reverse it with daily brushing and flossing and regular cleanings by a dentist or dental hygienist. Untreated gingivitis can lead to periodontitis. If you have periodontitis, the gums pull away from the teeth and form pockets that become infected. If not treated, the bones, gums and connective tissue that support the teeth are destroyed. NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu),https://medlineplus.gov/h1n1fluswineflu.html,"Swine Flu is a virus that pigs can get, but human infections can and do happen. H1N1 is the name of a strain that infected people in 2009. Learn more."," Swine flu is an infection caused by a virus. It's named for a virus that pigs can get. People do not normally get swine flu, but human infections can and do happen. In 2009 a strain of swine flu called H1N1 infected many people around the world. The virus is contagious and can spread from human to human. Symptoms of swine flu in people are similar to the symptoms of regular human flu and include fever, cough, sore throat, body aches, headache, chills and fatigue. There are antiviral medicines you can take to prevent or treat swine flu. There is a vaccine available to protect against swine flu. You can help prevent the spread of germs that cause respiratory illnesses like influenza by Covering your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it. Washing your hands often with soap and water, especially after you cough or sneeze. You can also use alcohol-based hand cleaners. Avoiding touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Germs spread this way. Trying to avoid close contact with sick people. Staying home from work or school if you are sick. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Haemophilus Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/haemophilusinfections.html,"Haemophilus is the name of a group of bacteria that can cause serious disease, such as Hib. There is a vaccine to prevent Hib. Learn more."," Haemophilus is the name of a group of bacteria. There are several types of Haemophilus. They can cause different types of illnesses involving breathing, bones and joints, and the nervous system. One common type, Hib (Haemophilus influenzae type b), causes serious disease. It usually strikes children under 5 years old. Your child can get Hib disease by being around other children or adults who may have the bacteria and not know it. The germs spread from person to person. If the germs stay in the child's nose and throat, the child probably will not get sick. But sometimes the germs spread into the lungs or the bloodstream, and then Hib can cause serious problems such as meningitis and pneumonia . Treatment is with antibiotics. There is a vaccine to prevent Hib disease. All children younger than 5 years of age should be vaccinated with the Hib vaccine. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Hair Loss,https://medlineplus.gov/hairloss.html,"There are many causes for hair loss. One is alopecia areata, a disease that affects the hair follicles. Read about it and other hair loss issues here."," You lose up to 100 hairs from your scalp every day. That's normal, and in most people, those hairs grow back. But many men -- and some women -- lose hair as they grow older. You can also lose your hair if you have certain diseases, such as thyroid problems, diabetes, or lupus. If you take certain medicines or have chemotherapy for cancer, you may also lose your hair. Other causes are stress, a low protein diet, a family history, or poor nutrition. Treatment for hair loss depends on the cause. In some cases, treating the underlying cause will correct the problem. Other treatments include medicines and hair restoration."
Hair Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/hairproblems.html,"You have hair all over your body, not just on your head. Find out about what's normal, how to care for hair, and common hair problems."," The average person has 5 million hairs. Hair grows all over your body except on your lips, palms, and the soles of your feet. It takes about a month for healthy hair to grow half an inch. Most hairs grow for up to six years and then fall out. New hairs grow in their place. Hair helps keep you warm. It also protects your eyes, ears and nose from small particles in the air. Common problem with the hair and scalp include hair loss , infections, and flaking ."
Hand Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/handinjuriesanddisorders.html,Find out what you can do if you are experiencing problems with your hands such as pain or stiffness. Learn about hand injuries and disorders. ," No matter how old you are or what you do for a living, you are always using your hands. When there is something wrong with them, you may not be able to do your regular activities. Hand problems include Carpal tunnel syndrome - compression of a nerve as it goes through the wrist, often making your fingers feel numb Injuries that result in fractures (broken bones), ruptured ligaments and dislocations Osteoarthritis - wear-and-tear arthritis, which can also cause deformity Tendinitis - irritation of the tendons Disorders and injuries of your fingers and thumb"
Hantavirus Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/hantavirusinfections.html,Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a rare but deadly viral infection. It is spread by mice and rats. Learn about symptoms and prevention.," Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a rare but deadly viral infection. It is spread by mice and rats. They shed the virus in their urine, droppings, and saliva. Tiny droplets with the virus can enter the air. People can get the disease if they breathe infected air or come into contact with rodents or their urine or droppings. You cannot catch it from people. Early symptoms of HPS include Fatigue Fever Muscle aches, especially in the thighs, hips and back Headaches Chills Dizziness Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain Later symptoms include coughing and shortness of breath. Controlling rodents in and around your house is the best way to prevent infection. If you have been around rodents and have symptoms of fever, deep muscle aches, and severe shortness of breath, see your doctor immediately. There is no specific treatment, cure, or vaccine for HPS. Patients may do better if it is recognized early and they get medical care in an intensive care unit. They often need to use a breathing machine and have oxygen therapy. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Hay Fever,https://medlineplus.gov/hayfever.html,"Hay fever (Pollen Allergy) is a type of allergy triggered by pollen from trees, weeds and grasses. Learn the symptoms.  "," Each spring, summer, and fall, trees, weeds, and grasses release tiny pollen grains into the air. Some of the pollen ends up in your nose and throat. This can trigger a type of allergy called hay fever. Symptoms can include Sneezing, often with a runny or clogged nose Coughing and postnasal drip Itching eyes, nose and throat Red and watery eyes Dark circles under the eyes Your health care provider may diagnose hay fever based on a physical exam and your symptoms. Sometimes skin or blood tests are used. Taking medicines and using nasal sprays can relieve symptoms. You can also rinse out your nose, but be sure to use distilled or sterilized water with saline. Allergy shots can help make you less sensitive to pollen and provide long-term relief."
"HDL: The ""Good"" Cholesterol",https://medlineplus.gov/hdlthegoodcholesterol.html,"HDL, or high-density lipoprotein, is the ""good"" cholesterol. It helps to remove bad cholesterol from your arteries, so a higher HDL level is better."," What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in your body. Your liver makes cholesterol, and it is also in some foods, such as meat and dairy products. Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But having too much cholesterol in your blood raises your risk of coronary artery disease . What are HDL and LDL? HDL and LDL are two types of lipoproteins.They are a combination of fat (lipid) and protein. The lipids need to be attached to the proteins so they can move through the blood. HDL and LDL have different purposes: HDL stands for high-density lipoproteins. It is sometimes called the ""good"" cholesterol because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Your liver then removes the cholesterol from your body. LDL stands for low-density lipoproteins. It is sometimes called the ""bad"" cholesterol because a high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. How do I know what my HDL level is? A blood test can measure your cholesterol levels, including HDL. When and how often you should get this test depends on your age, risk factors, and family history. The general recommendations are: For people who are age 19 or younger: The first test should be between ages 9 to 11 Children should have the test again every 5 years Some children may have this test starting at age 2 if there is a family history of high blood cholesterol, heart attack, or stroke For people who are age 20 or older: Younger adults should have the test every 5 years Men ages 45 to 65 and women ages 55 to 65 should have it every 1 to 2 years What should my HDL level be? With HDL cholesterol, higher numbers are better, because a high HDL level can lower your risk for coronary artery disease and stroke . How high your HDL should be depends on your age and sex: Group Healthy HDL Level Age 19 or younger More than 45mg/dl Men age 20 or older More than 40mg/dl Women age 20 or older More than 50mg/dl How can I raise my HDL level? If your HDL level is too low, lifestyle changes may help. These changes may also help prevent other diseases, and make you feel better overall: Eat a healthy diet. To raise your HDL level, you need to eat good fats instead of bad fats. This means limiting saturated fats, which include full-fat milk and cheese, high-fat meats like sausage and bacon, and foods made with butter, lard, and shortening. You should also avoid trans fats, which may be in some margarines, fried foods, and processed foods like baked goods. Instead, eat unsaturated fats, which are found in avocado, vegetable oils like olive oil, and nuts. Limit carbohydrates, especially sugar. Also try to eat more foods naturally high in fiber, such as oatmeal and beans. Stay at a healthy weight. You can boost your HDL level by losing weight, especially if you have lots of fat around your waist. Exercise. Getting regular exercise can raise your HDL level, as well as lower your LDL. You should try to do 30 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic exercise on most, if not all, days. Avoid cigarettes. Smoking and exposure to secondhand smoke can lower your HDL level. If you are a smoker, ask your health care provider for help in finding the best way for you to quit . You should also try to avoid secondhand smoke. Limit alcohol. Moderate alcohol may lower your HDL level, although more studies are needed to confirm that. What we do know is that too much alcohol can make you gain weight, and that lowers your HDL level. Some cholesterol medicines , including certain statins , can raise your HDL level, in addition to lowering your LDL level. Health care providers don't usually prescribe medicines only to raise HDL. But if you have a low HDL and high LDL level, you might need medicine. What else can affect my HDL level? Taking certain medicines can lower HDL levels in some people. They include Beta blockers, a type of blood pressure medicine Anabolic steroids , including testosterone, a male hormone Progestins, which are female hormones that are in some birth control pills and hormone replacement therapy Benzodiazepines, sedatives that are often used for anxiety and insomnia If you are taking one of these and you have a very low HDL level, ask your provider if you should continue to take them. Diabetes can also lower your HDL level, so that gives you another reason to manage your diabetes ."
Head and Neck Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/headandneckcancer.html,"Head and neck cancer includes cancers of the mouth, nose, sinuses, salivary glands, throat, and lymph nodes. Read the different symptoms of each type."," Head and neck cancer includes cancers of the mouth , nose , sinuses, salivary glands , throat , and lymph nodes in the neck. Most begin in the moist tissues that line the mouth, nose, and throat. Symptoms include A lump or sore that does not heal A sore throat that does not go away Trouble swallowing A change or hoarseness in the voice Head and neck cancers are twice as common in men. Using tobacco or alcohol increases your risk. In fact, around 75% of head and neck cancers are linked to tobacco use, including smoking and smokeless tobacco . Infection with HPV is a risk factor for some head and neck cancers. To diagnose head and neck cancer, your doctor will do a physical exam and diagnostic tests. You will have a biopsy, where a sample of tissue is taken out and examined under a microscope. It is the only test that can tell for sure if you have cancer. If found early, these cancers are often curable. Treatments may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination. Treatments can affect eating, speaking or even breathing, so patients may need rehabilitation. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Head Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/headinjuries.html,It is important to know the warning signs of a moderate or severe head injury.Learn when to seek medical attention. ," Chances are you've bumped your head before. Often, the injury is minor because your skull is hard and it protects your brain. But other head injuries can be more severe, such as a skull fracture, concussion , or traumatic brain injury . Head injuries can be open or closed. A closed injury does not break through the skull. With an open, or penetrating, injury, an object pierces the skull and enters the brain. Closed injuries are not always less severe than open injuries. Some common causes of head injuries are falls , motor vehicle accidents , violence, and sports injuries . It is important to know the warning signs of a moderate or severe head injury. Get help immediately if the injured person has A headache that gets worse or does not go away Repeated vomiting or nausea Convulsions or seizures An inability to wake up Dilated (enlarged) pupil in one or both eyes Slurred speech Weakness or numbness in the arms or legs Loss of coordination Increased confusion, restlessness, or agitation Doctors use a neurologic exam and imaging tests to make a diagnosis. Treatment depends on the type of injury and how severe it is. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Head Lice,https://medlineplus.gov/headlice.html,"Could that itchy, tickly feeling on your head be head lice? Learn about these tiny insects, such as how to tell if you have them, and how to treat it."," What are head lice? Head lice are tiny insects that live on people's heads. Adult lice are about the size of sesame seeds. The eggs, called nits, are even smaller - about the size of a dandruff flake. Lice and nits are found on or near the scalp, most often at the neckline and behind the ears. Head lice are parasites, and they need to feed on human blood to survive. They are one of the three types of lice that live on humans. The other two types are body lice and pubic lice . Each type of lice is different, and getting one type does not mean that you will get another type. How do head lice spread? Lice move by crawling, because they cannot hop or fly. They spread by close person-to-person contact. Rarely, they can spread through sharing personal belongings such as hats or hairbrushes. Personal hygiene and cleanliness have nothing to do with getting head lice. You also cannot get pubic lice from animals. Head lice do not spread disease. Who is at risk for head lice? Children ages 3-11 and their families get head lice most often. This is because young children often have head-to-head contact while playing together. What are the symptoms of head lice? The symptoms of head lice include Tickling feeling in the hair Frequent itching, which is caused by an allergic reaction to the bites Sores from scratching. Sometimes the sores can become infected with bacteria. Trouble sleeping, because head lice are most active in the dark How do you know if you have head lice? A diagnosis of head lice usually comes from seeing a louse or nit. Because they are very small and move quickly, you may need to use a magnifying lens and a fine-toothed comb to find lice or nits. What are the treatments for head lice? Treatments for head lice include both over-the-counter and prescription shampoos, creams, and lotions. If you want to use an over-the-counter treatment and you aren't sure which one to use or how to use one, ask your health care provider or pharmacist. You should also check with your health care provider first if you are pregnant or nursing, or if you want to use a treatment on a young child. Follow these steps when using a head lice treatment: Apply the product according to the instructions. Only apply it to the scalp and the hair attached to the scalp. You should not use it on other body hair. Use only one product at a time, unless your health care provider tells you to use two different kinds at once Pay attention to what the instructions say about how long you should leave the medicine on the hair and on how you should rinse it out After rinsing, use a fine-toothed comb or special ""nit comb"" to remove dead lice and nits After each treatment, check your hair for lice and nits. You should comb your hair to remove nits and lice every 2-3 days. Do this for 2-3 weeks to be sure that all lice and nits are gone. All household members and other close contacts should be checked and treated if necessary. If an over-the-counter treatment does not work for you, you can ask your health care provider for a prescription product. Can head lice be prevented? There are steps you can take to prevent the spread of lice. If you already have lice, besides treatment, you should Wash your clothes, bedding, and towels with hot water, and dry them using the hot cycle of the dryer Soak your combs and brushes in hot water for 5-10 minutes Vacuum the floor and furniture, particularly where you sat or lay If there are items that you cannot wash, seal them in a plastic bag for two weeks To prevent your children from spreading lice: Teach children to avoid head-to-head contact during play and other activities Teach children not to share clothing and other items that they put on their head, such as headphones, hair ties, and helmets If your child has lice, be sure to check the policies at school and/or daycare. Your child may not be able to go back until the lice have been completely treated. There is no clear scientific evidence that lice can be suffocated by home remedies, such as mayonnaise, olive oil, or similar substances. You also should not use kerosene or gasoline; they are dangerous and flammable. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Headache,https://medlineplus.gov/headache.html,"Nearly everyone has had a headache, the most common form of pain. Learn the different types, the different symptoms of, and when to see a doctor."," Almost everyone has had a headache. Headache is the most common form of pain. It's a major reason people miss days at work or school or visit the doctor. The most common type of headache is a tension headache. Tension headaches are due to tight muscles in your shoulders, neck, scalp and jaw. They are often related to stress, depression or anxiety. You are more likely to get tension headaches if you work too much, don't get enough sleep, miss meals, or use alcohol. Other common types of headaches include migraines , cluster headaches, and sinus headaches. Most people can feel much better by making lifestyle changes, learning ways to relax and taking pain relievers . Not all headaches require a doctor's attention. But sometimes headaches warn of a more serious disorder. Let your health care provider know if you have sudden, severe headaches. Get medical help right away if you have a headache after a blow to your head, or if you have a headache along with a stiff neck, fever, confusion, loss of consciousness, or pain in the eye or ear. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Health Checkup,https://medlineplus.gov/healthcheckup.html,Regular health exams and tests can help find problems before they start.Learn about what you can do to make the most of your next check-up.," Regular health exams and tests can help find problems before they start. They also can help find problems early, when your chances for treatment and cure are better. Which exams and screenings you need depends on your age, health and family history, and lifestyle choices such as what you eat, how active you are, and whether you smoke. To make the most of your next check-up, here are some things to do before you go: Review your family medical history Find out if you are due for any general screenings or vaccinations Write down a list of issues and questions to take with you Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Health Disparities,https://medlineplus.gov/healthdisparities.html,Health disparities refer to differences in the health status of different groups of people. Read more., Health disparities are health differences between different groups of people. These health differences may include How many people get certain diseases How severe the diseases are How many people have complications because of the diseases How many people die from a disease Whether people can get health care How many people get screened for a disease These groups of people may be based on Race Ethnicity Immigrant status Disability Sex or gender Sexual orientation Geography Income Level of education NIH: National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities
Health Facilities,https://medlineplus.gov/healthfacilities.html,"Health facilities are places that provide health care such as hospitals, clinics, outpatient care centers, and specialized care centers. Learn more."," Health facilities are places that provide health care. They include hospitals, clinics, outpatient care centers, and specialized care centers, such as birthing centers and psychiatric care centers. When you choose a health facility, you might want to consider How close it is to where you live or work Whether your health insurance will pay for services there Whether your health care provider can treat you there The quality of the facility Quality is important. Some facilities do a better job than others. One way to learn about the quality of a facility is to look at report cards developed by federal, state, and consumer groups."
Health Fraud,https://medlineplus.gov/healthfraud.html,"If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Health fraud scams promise help but haven't been proven effective. Learn how to protect yourself."," Health fraud involves selling drugs, devices, foods, or cosmetics that have not been proven effective. Keep in mind - if it sounds too good to be true, it's probably a scam. At best, these scams don't work. At worst, they're dangerous. They also waste money, and they might keep you from getting the treatment you really need. Health fraud scams can be found everywhere, promising help for many common health issues, including weight loss, memory loss, sexual performance, and joint pain. They target people with serious conditions like cancer, diabetes, heart disease, HIV/AIDS, arthritis, Alzheimer's, and many more. To protect yourself, recognize the red flags such as: Miracle cure Quick fix Ancient remedy Secret ingredient Scientific breakthrough Before taking an unproven or little known treatment, talk to a doctor or health care professional - especially when taking prescription drugs. Food and Drug Administration"
Health Insurance,https://medlineplus.gov/healthinsurance.html,Health insurance helps protect you from high medical care costs. Read about different types of benefits and what is covered.," Health insurance helps protect you from high medical care costs. It is a contract between you and your insurance company. You buy a plan or policy, and the company agrees to pay part of your expenses when you need medical care. Many people in the United States get a health insurance policy through their employers. In most cases, the employer helps pay for that insurance. Insurance through employers is often with a managed care plan. These plans contract with health care providers and medical facilities to provide care for members at reduced costs. You can also purchase health insurance on your own. People who meet certain requirements can qualify for government health insurance, such as Medicare and Medicaid . The Affordable Care Act expands health insurance coverage for many people in the U.S."
Health Literacy,https://medlineplus.gov/healthliteracy.html,"Health literacy refers to how well a person can get the health information and services that they need, and how well they understand them. Learn more."," What is health literacy? Health literacy involves the information that people need to be able to make good decisions about health. There are two parts: Personal health literacy is about how well a person can find and understand the health information and services that they need. It is also about using the information and services to make good health decisions. Organizational health literacy is about to how well organizations help people find the health information and services that they need. It also includes helping them use that information to make good health decisions. Which factors can affect health literacy? Many different factors can affect a person's health literacy, including their Knowledge of medical words Understanding of how the health care system works Ability to communicate with health care providers Ability to find health information, which may require computer skills Reading, writing, and number skills Personal factors, such as age, income, education, language abilities, and culture Physical or mental limitations Many of the same people who are at risk for limited health literacy also have health disparities . Health disparities are health differences between different groups of people. These groups may be based on age, race, gender, or other factors. Why is health literacy important? Health literacy is important because it can affect your ability to Make good decisions about your health Get the medical care you need. This includes preventative care, which is care to prevent disease. Take your medicines correctly Manage a disease, especially a chronic disease Lead a healthy lifestyle One thing that you can do is to make sure that you communicate well with your health care providers . If you don't understand something a provider tells you, ask them to explain it to you so that you understand. You can also ask the provider to write down their instructions."
Health Occupations,https://medlineplus.gov/healthoccupations.html,People with jobs in the medical field provide healthcare for millions of people. Find out about medical and healthcare careers. ," Every day, around the clock, people who work in the health care industry provide care for millions of people, from newborns to the very ill. In fact, the health care industry is one of largest providers of jobs in the United States. Many health jobs are in hospitals. Others are in nursing homes, doctors' offices, dentists' offices, outpatient clinics and laboratories. To work in a health occupation, you often must have special training. Some, like doctors, must have more than 4 years of college. Bureau of Labor Statistics"
Health Problems in Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/healthproblemsinpregnancy.html,Learn about illnesses and conditions that can make a pregnancy risky such as cancer and gestational diabetes. Get the facts on specific conditions.," Every pregnancy has some risk of problems. You may have problems because of a health condition you had before you got pregnant. You could also develop a condition during pregnancy. Other causes of problems during pregnancy can include being pregnant with more than one baby , a health problem in a previous pregnancy, drug use during pregnancy , or being over age 35. Any of these can affect your health, the health of your baby , or both. If you have a chronic condition, you should talk to your health care provider about how to minimize your risk before you get pregnant . Once you are pregnant, you may need a health care team to monitor your pregnancy. Some common conditions that can complicate a pregnancy include High blood pressure Polycystic ovary syndrome Kidney problems Autoimmune disorders Obesity HIV/AIDS Cancer Infections Other conditions that can make pregnancy risky can happen while you are pregnant - for example, gestational diabetes and Rh incompatibility . Good prenatal care can help detect and treat them. Some discomforts, like nausea, back pain, and fatigue, are common during pregnancy. Sometimes it is hard to know what is normal. Call your health care provider if something is bothering or worrying you."
Health Risks of an Inactive Lifestyle,https://medlineplus.gov/healthrisksofaninactivelifestyle.html,"An inactive lifestyle, with too much sitting and not enough exercise, is bad for you. Learn about the health risks and how you can be more active."," What is an inactive lifestyle? Being a couch potato. Not exercising. A sedentary or inactive lifestyle. You have probably heard of all of these phrases, and they mean the same thing: a lifestyle with a lot of sitting and lying down, with very little to no exercise. In the United States and around the world, people are spending more and more time doing sedentary activities. During our leisure time, we are often sitting: while using a computer or other device, watching TV, or playing video games. Many of our jobs have become more sedentary, with long days sitting at a desk. And the way most of us get around involves sitting - in cars, on buses, and on trains. How does an inactive lifestyle affect your body? When you have an inactive lifestyle, You burn fewer calories. This makes you more likely to gain weight. You may lose muscle strength and endurance, because you are not using your muscles as much Your bones may get weaker and lose some mineral content Your metabolism may be affected, and your body may have more trouble breaking down fats and sugars Your immune system may not work as well You may have poorer blood circulation Your body may have more inflammation You may develop a hormonal imbalance What are the health risks of an inactive lifestyle? Having an inactive lifestyle can be one of the causes of many chronic diseases. By not getting regular exercise, you raise your risk of Obesity Heart diseases , including coronary artery disease and heart attack High blood pressure High cholesterol Stroke Metabolic syndrome Type 2 diabetes Certain cancers, including colon , breast , and uterine cancers Osteoporosis and falls Increased feelings of depression and anxiety Having a sedentary lifestyle can also raise your risk of premature death. And the more sedentary you are, the higher your health risks are. How can I get started with exercise? If you have been inactive, you may need to start slowly. You can keep adding more exercise gradually. The more you can do, the better. But try not to feel overwhelmed, and do what you can. Getting some exercise is always better than getting none. Eventually, your goal can be to get the recommended amount of exercise for your age and health. There are many different ways to get exercise; it is important to find the types that are best for you . You can also try to add activity to your life in smaller ways, such as at home and at work. How can I be more active around the house? There are some ways you can be active around your house: Housework, gardening, and yard work are all physical work. To increase the intensity, you could try doing them at a more vigorous pace. Keep moving while you watch TV. Lift hand weights, do some gentle yoga stretches, or pedal an exercise bike. Instead of using the TV remote, get up and change the channels yourself. Work out at home with a workout video (on your TV or on the internet) Go for a walk in your neighborhood. It can be more fun if you walk your dog, walk your kids to school, or walk with a friend. Stand up when talking on the phone Get some exercise equipment for your home. Treadmills and elliptical trainers are great, but not everyone has the money or space for one. Less expensive equipment such as yoga balls, exercise mats, stretch bands, and hand weights can help you get a workout at home too. How can I be more active at work? Most of us sit when we are working, often in front of a computer. In fact, less than 20% of Americans have physically active jobs. It can be challenging to fit physical activity into your busy workday, but here are some tips to help you get moving: Get up from your chair and move around at least once an hour Stand when you are talking on the phone Find out whether your company can get you a stand-up or treadmill desk Take the stairs instead of the elevator Use your break or part of your lunch hour to walk around the building Stand up and walk to a colleague's office instead of sending an email Have ""walking"" or standing meetings with co-workers instead of sitting in a conference room"
Health Screening,https://medlineplus.gov/healthscreening.html,Screenings are tests that look for diseases before you have symptoms. Learn about conditions you can be common health screening tests.," Screenings are tests that look for diseases before you have symptoms. Screening tests can find diseases early, when they're easier to treat. You can get some screenings in your doctor's office. Others need special equipment, so you may need to go to a different office or clinic. Some conditions that doctors commonly screen for include Breast cancer and cervical cancer in women Colorectal cancer Diabetes High blood pressure High cholesterol Osteoporosis Overweight and obesity Prostate cancer in men Which tests you need depends on your age, your sex, your family history, and whether you have risk factors for certain diseases. After a screening test, ask when you will get the results and whom to talk to about them. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality"
Health Statistics,https://medlineplus.gov/healthstatistics.html,Health statistics are numbers about some aspect of health. Researchers use statistics to see patterns of diseases in groups of people. Learn more.," Health statistics are numbers that summarize information related to health. Researchers and experts from government, private, and non-profit agencies and organizations collect health statistics. They use the statistics to learn about public health and health care. Some of the types of statistics include How many people in the country have a disease or how many people got the disease within a certain period of time How many people of a certain group have a disease. The groups could be based on location, race, ethnic group, sex, age, profession, income level, level of education. This can help identify health disparities . Whether a treatment is safe and effective How many people were born and died. These are known as vital statistics. How many people have access to and use health care The quality and efficiency of our health care system Health care costs, including how much the government, employers, and individuals pay for health care. It could include how poor health can affect the country economically The impact of government programs and policies on health Risk factors for different diseases. An example would be how air pollution can raise your risk of lung diseases Ways to lower risk for diseases, such as exercise and weight loss to lower the risk of getting type 2 diabetes Numbers on a graph or in a chart may seem straightforward, but that's not always the case. It's important to be critical and consider the source. If needed, ask questions to help you understand the statistics and what they are showing."
Healthy Aging,https://medlineplus.gov/healthyaging.html,"People in the U.S. are living longer than ever before. Many seniors live active and healthy lives. As we age, our bodies and minds change. Read more."," People in the U.S. are living longer, and the number of older adults in the population is growing. As we age, our minds and bodies change. Having a healthy lifestyle can help you deal with those changes. It may also prevent some health problems and help you to make the most of your life. A healthy lifestyle for older adults includes Healthy eating . As you age, your dietary needs may change. You may need fewer calories, but you still need to get enough nutrients. A healthy eating plan includes Eating foods that give you lots of nutrients without a lot of extra calories. This includes fruits and vegetables, whole grains, lean meats, low-fat dairy, nuts, and seeds. Avoiding empty calories, such as foods like chips, candy, baked goods, soda, and alcohol Eating foods that are low in cholesterol and fat Drinking enough liquids, so you don't get dehydrated Regular physical activity . Being physically active may help you maintain a healthy weight and avoid chronic health problems. If you have not been active, you can start slowly and work up to your goal. How much exercise you need depends on your age and health. Check with your health care provider on what is right for you. Staying at a healthy weight . Being either overweight or underweight can lead to health problems. Ask your health care professional what a healthy weight for you may be. Healthy eating and exercise can help you get to that weight. Keeping your mind active. Lots of activities can keep your mind active and improve your memory , including learning new skills, reading, and playing games. Making your mental health a priority. Work on improving your mental health , for example by practicing mediation, relaxation techniques, or gratitude. Know the warning signs of a problem and ask for help if you are struggling. Participating in activities that you enjoy. People who are involved in hobbies and social and leisure activities may be at lower risk for some health problems. Doing things that you enjoy may help you feel happier and improve your thinking abilities. Playing an active role in your health care. Make sure that you get regular checkups and the health screenings that you need. You should know which medicines you are taking, why you need them, and how to take them properly . Not smoking. If you are a smoker, quitting is one of the most important things that you can do for your health. It can lower your risk of several different types of cancer, certain lung diseases, and heart disease. Taking steps to prevent falls . Older adults have a higher risk of falling. They are also more likely to fracture (break) a bone when they fall. Getting regular eye checkups , getting regular physical activity, and making your house safer can lower your risk of falling. Following these tips can help you to stay healthy as you age. Even if you have never done them before, it's never too late to start taking care of your health. If you have questions about these lifestyle changes or need help figuring out how to make them, ask your health care provider."
Healthy Living,https://medlineplus.gov/healthyliving.html,"What does it take to lead a healthy life? Taking steps toward healthy living can help reduce your risk of heart disease, cancer, and other diseases."," Many factors affect your health. Some you cannot control, such as your genetic makeup or your age. But you can make changes to your lifestyle. By taking steps toward healthy living, you can help reduce your risk of heart disease, cancer, stroke and other serious diseases: Get the screening tests you need Maintain a healthy weight Eat a variety of healthy foods , and limit calories and saturated fat Be physically active Control your blood pressure and cholesterol Don't smoke Protect yourself from too much sun Drink alcohol in moderation, or don't drink at all Get enough sleep every day Work on improving your mental health , for example by practicing mediation, relaxation techniques, or gratitude Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality"
Healthy Sleep,https://medlineplus.gov/healthysleep.html,"Sleep is critical to your health and well-being. Learn about why you need sleep, how much you need, and how you can get better sleep."," What is sleep? While you are sleeping, you are unconscious, but your brain and body functions are still active. Sleep is a complex biological process that helps you process new information, stay healthy, and feel rested. During sleep, your brain cycles through five stages: stage 1, 2, 3, 4, and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Different things happen during each stage. For example, you have a different pattern of brain waves during each one. Your breathing, heart, and temperature may be slower or faster in some stages. Certain phases of sleep help you Feel rested and energetic the next day Learn information, get insight, and form memories Give your heart and vascular system a rest Release more growth hormone, which helps children grow. It also boosts muscle mass and the repair of cells and tissues in children and adults. Release sex hormones, which contributes to puberty and fertility Keep from getting sick or help you get better when you are sick, by creating more cytokines (hormones that help the immune system fight various infections) You need all of the stages to get a healthy sleep. How much sleep do I need? The amount of sleep you need depends on several factors, including your age, lifestyle, health, and whether you have been getting enough sleep recently. The general recommendations for sleep are Newborns: 16-18 hours a day Preschool-aged children: 11-12 hours a day School-aged children: At least 10 hours a day Teens: 9-10 hours a day Adults (including older adults): 7-8 hours a day During puberty, teenagers' biological clocks shift, and they are more likely to go to bed later than younger children and adults, and they tend to want to sleep later in the morning. This delayed sleep-wake rhythm conflicts with the early-morning start times of many high schools and helps explain why most teenagers do not get enough sleep. Some people think that adults need less sleep as they age. But there is no evidence to show that older adults can get by with less sleep than people who are younger. As people age, however, they often get less sleep or they tend to spend less time in the deep, restful stage of sleep. Older adults are also more easily awakened. And it's not just the number of hours of sleep you get that matters. The quality of the sleep you get is also important. People whose sleep is frequently interrupted or cut short might not get enough of certain stages of sleep. If you are wondering whether you are getting enough sleep, including quality sleep, ask yourself Do you have trouble getting up in the morning? Do you have trouble focusing during the day? Do you doze off during the day? If you answered yes to these three questions, you should work on improving your sleep. What are the health effects of not getting enough sleep? Sleep is important for overall health. When you don't get enough sleep (sleep deprivation), it does more than just make you feel tired. It can affect your performance, including your ability to think clearly, react quickly, and form memories. This may cause you to make bad decisions and take more risks. People with sleep deprivation are more likely to get into accidents. Sleep deprivation can also affect your mood, leading to Irritability Problems with relationships, especially for children and teenagers Depression Anxiety It can also affect your physical health. Research shows that not getting enough sleep, or getting poor-quality sleep, increases your risk of High blood pressure Heart disease Stroke Kidney disease Obesity Type 2 diabetes Not getting enough sleep can also mean that you don't get enough of the hormones that help children grow and help adults and children build muscle mass, fight infections, and repair cells. Sleep deprivation magnifies the effect of alcohol. A tired person who drinks too much alcohol will be more impaired than a well-rested person. How can I get better sleep? You can take steps to improve your sleep habits. First, make sure that you allow yourself enough time to sleep. With enough sleep each night, you may find that you're happier and more productive during the day. To improve your sleep habits, it also may help to Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day Avoid caffeine , especially in the afternoon and evening Avoid nicotine Exercise regularly, but don't exercise too late in the day Avoid alcoholic drinks before bed Avoid large meals and beverages late at night Don't take a nap after 3 p.m. Relax before bed, for example by taking a bath, reading or listening to relaxing music Keep the temperature in your bedroom cool Get rid of distractions such as noises, bright lights, and a TV or computer in the bedroom. Also, don't be tempted to go on your phone or tablet just before bed. Get enough sunlight exposure during the day Don't lie in bed awake; if you can't sleep for 20 minutes, get up and do something relaxing See a doctor if you have continued trouble sleeping. You may have a sleep disorder , such as insomnia or sleep apnea . In some cases, your doctor may suggest trying over-the-counter or prescription sleep aid. In other cases, your doctor may want you to do a sleep study, to help diagnose the problem. If you are a shift worker, it can be even harder to get a good sleep. You may also want to Take naps and increase the amount of time available for sleep Keep the lights bright at work Limit shift changes so your body clock can adjust Limit caffeine use to the first part of your shift Remove sound and light distractions in your bedroom during daytime sleep (for example, use light-blocking curtains)"
Hearing Aids,https://medlineplus.gov/hearingaids.html,"There are different types of hearing aids. They differ by size, placement, and how much they amplify sound. Discover which will work best for you."," A hearing aid is a small electronic device that you wear in or behind your ear. It makes some sounds louder. A hearing aid can help people hear more in both quiet and noisy situations. Hearing aids help people who have hearing loss from damage to the small sensory cells in the inner ear. The damage can occur as a result of disease, aging, or injury from noise or certain medicines. Only about one out of five people who would benefit from a hearing aid actually uses one. If you think a hearing aid could help you, visit your doctor. There are different kinds of hearing aids. They differ by size, their placement on or inside the ear, and how much they amplify sound. The hearing aid that will work best for you depends on what kind of hearing loss you have, and how severe it is. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Hearing Disorders and Deafness,https://medlineplus.gov/hearingdisordersanddeafness.html,"Hearing loss can be caused by trauma, diseases, long term exposure to loud noise and other factors. Learn about the two types of hearing loss.  "," It's frustrating to be unable to hear well enough to enjoy talking with friends or family. Hearing disorders make it hard, but not impossible, to hear. They can often be helped. Deafness can keep you from hearing sound at all. What causes hearing loss? Some possibilities are Heredity Diseases such as ear infections and meningitis Trauma Certain medicines Long-term exposure to loud noise Aging There are two main types of hearing loss. One happens when your inner ear or auditory nerve is damaged. This type is usually permanent. The other kind happens when sound waves cannot reach your inner ear. Earwax buildup, fluid, or a punctured eardrum can cause it. Treatment or surgery can often reverse this kind of hearing loss. Untreated, hearing problems can get worse. If you have trouble hearing, you can get help. Possible treatments include hearing aids , cochlear implants , special training, certain medicines, and surgery. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Hearing Problems in Children,https://medlineplus.gov/hearingproblemsinchildren.html,"Hearing problems can be temporary or permanent. About 2 or 3 out of every 1,000 children in the U.S. are born deaf or hard-of-hearing. "," Most children hear and listen from the moment they are born. They learn to talk by imitating the sounds around them and the voices of their parents and caregivers. But about 2 or 3 out of every 1,000 children in the United States are born deaf or hard-of-hearing. More lose their hearing later during childhood. Babies should have a hearing screening before they are a month old. If your child has a hearing loss, it is important to consider the use of hearing devices and other communication options by age 6 months. That's because children start learning speech and language long before they talk. Hearing problems can be temporary or permanent. Sometimes, ear infections , injuries or diseases affect hearing. If your child does not hear well, get help. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Heart Attack,https://medlineplus.gov/heartattack.html,Over a million people in the U.S. have a heart attack each year. Learn the symptoms and get help quickly to prevent permanent heart damage and death.," Each year almost 800,000 Americans have a heart attack. A heart attack happens when blood flow to the heart suddenly becomes blocked. Without the blood coming in, the heart can't get oxygen. If not treated quickly, the heart muscle begins to die. But if you do get quick treatment, you may be able to prevent or limit damage to the heart muscle. That's why it's important to know the symptoms of a heart attack and call 911 if you or someone else is having them. You should call, even if you are not sure that it is a heart attack. The most common symptoms in men and women are Chest discomfort. It is often in center or left side of the chest. It usually lasts more than a few minutes. It may go away and come back. It can feel like pressure, squeezing, fullness, or pain . It also can feel like heartburn or indigestion. Shortness of breath. Sometimes this is your only symptom. You may get it before or during the chest discomfort. It can happen when you are resting or doing a little bit of physical activity. Discomfort in the upper body. You may feel pain or discomfort in one or both arms, the back, shoulders, neck, jaw, or upper part of the stomach. You may also have other symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and lightheadedness. You may break out in a cold sweat. Sometimes women will have different symptoms then men. For example, they are more likely to feel tired for no reason. The most common cause of heart attacks is coronary artery disease (CAD). With CAD, there is a buildup of cholesterol and other material, called plaque, on their inner walls or the arteries. This is atherosclerosis . It can build up for years. Eventually an area of plaque can rupture (break open). A blood clot can form around the plaque and block the artery. A less common cause of heart attack is a severe spasm (tightening) of a coronary artery. The spasm cuts off blood flow through the artery. At the hospital, health care providers make a diagnosis based on your symptoms, blood tests, and different heart health tests . Treatments may include medicines and medical procedures such as coronary angioplasty . After a heart attack, cardiac rehabilitation and lifestyle changes can help you recover. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Disease in Women,https://medlineplus.gov/heartdiseaseinwomen.html,"One in 4 women dies from heart disease in the U.S. Learn how heart diseases affect women differently than men, the symptoms, and risk factors."," In the United States, 1 in 4 women dies from heart disease . The most common cause of heart disease in both men and women is narrowing or blockage of the coronary arteries, the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart itself. This is called coronary artery disease , and it happens slowly over time. It's the major reason people have heart attacks . Heart diseases that affect women more than men include Coronary microvascular disease (MVD) - a problem that affects the heart's tiny arteries Broken heart syndrome - extreme emotional stress leading to severe but often short-term heart muscle failure The older a woman gets, the more likely she is to get heart disease. But women of all ages should be concerned about heart disease. All women can take steps to prevent it by practicing healthy lifestyle habits. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/heartdiseases.html,"Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the U.S. Learn about the different types of heart diseases, and what you can do to try to prevent them."," If you're like most people, you think that heart disease is a problem for others. But heart disease is the number one killer in the U.S. It is also a major cause of disability. There are many different forms of heart disease. The most common cause of heart disease is narrowing or blockage of the coronary arteries, the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart itself. This is called coronary artery disease and happens slowly over time. It's the major reason people have heart attacks . Other kinds of heart problems may happen to the valves in the heart, or the heart may not pump well and cause heart failure . Some people are born with heart disease. You can help reduce your risk of heart disease by taking steps to control factors that put you at greater risk: Control your blood pressure Lower your cholesterol Don't smoke Get enough exercise NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Failure,https://medlineplus.gov/heartfailure.html,"Heart failure, or congestive heart failure (CHF), means the heart can't pump enough blood. Learn about the signs, symptoms and causes."," Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. Heart failure does not mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. It means that your heart is not able to pump blood the way it should. It can affect one or both sides of the heart. The weakening of the heart's pumping ability causes Blood and fluid to back up into the lungs The buildup of fluid in the feet, ankles and legs - called edema Tiredness and shortness of breath Common causes of heart failure are coronary artery disease , high blood pressure and diabetes . It is more common in people who are 65 years old or older, African Americans, people who are overweight, and people who have had a heart attack. Men have a higher rate of heart failure than women. Your doctor will diagnose heart failure by doing a physical exam and heart tests. Treatment includes treating the underlying cause of your heart failure, medicines, and heart transplantation if other treatments fail. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Health Tests,https://medlineplus.gov/hearthealthtests.html,"Heart health tests can help find heart diseases, as part of a screening, or when you have symptoms. Learn about imaging, stress, and other tests."," Heart diseases are the number one killer in the U.S. They are also a major cause of disability. If you do have a heart disease, it is important to find it early, when it is easier to treat. Blood tests and heart health tests can help find heart diseases or identify problems that can lead to heart diseases. There are several different types of heart health tests. Your doctor will decide which test or tests you need, based on your symptoms (if any), risk factors, and medical history. Cardiac Catheterization Cardiac catheterization is a medical procedure used to diagnose and treat some heart conditions. For the procedure, your doctor puts a catheter (a long, thin, flexible tube) into a blood vessel in your arm, groin, or neck, and threads it to your heart. The doctor can use the catheter to Do a coronary angiography. This involves putting a special type of dye in the catheter, so the dye can flow through your bloodstream to your heart. Then your doctor takes x-rays of your heart. The dye allows your doctor to see your coronary arteries on the x-ray, and to check for coronary artery disease (plaque buildup in the arteries). Take samples of blood and heart muscle Do procedures such as minor heart surgery or angioplasty , if your doctor finds that you need it Cardiac CT Scan A cardiac CT ( computed tomography ) scan is a painless imaging test that uses x-rays to take detailed pictures of your heart and its blood vessels. Computers can combine these pictures to create a three-dimensional (3D) model of the whole heart. This test can help doctors detect or evaluate Coronary artery disease Calcium buildup in the coronary arteries Problems with the aorta Problems with heart function and valves Pericardial diseases Before you have the test, you get an injection of contrast dye. The dye highlights your heart and blood vessels in the pictures. The CT scanner is a large, tunnel-like machine. You lie still on a table which slides you into the scanner, and the scanner takes the pictures for about 15 minutes. Cardiac MRI Cardiac MRI ( magnetic resonance imaging ) is a painless imaging test that uses radio waves, magnets, and a computer to create detailed pictures of your heart. It can help your doctor figure out whether you have heart disease, and if so, how severe it is. A cardiac MRI can also help your doctor decide the best way to treat heart problems such as Coronary artery disease Heart valve problems Pericarditis Cardiac tumors Damage from a heart attack The MRI is a large, tunnel-like machine. You lie still on a table which slides you into the MRI machine. The machine makes loud noises as it takes pictures of your heart. It usually takes about 30-90 minutes. Sometimes before the test, you might get an injection of contrast dye. The dye highlights your heart and blood vessels in the pictures. Chest X-Ray A chest x-ray creates pictures of the organs and structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. It can reveal signs of heart failure , as well as lung disorders and other causes of symptoms not related to heart disease. Coronary Angiography Coronary angiography (angiogram) is a procedure that uses contrast dye and x-ray pictures to look at the insides of your arteries. It can show whether plaque is blocking your arteries and how severe the blockage is. Doctors use this procedure to diagnose heart diseases after chest pain, sudden cardiac arrest, or abnormal results from other heart tests such as an EKG or a stress test. You usually have a cardiac catheterization to get the dye into your coronary arteries. Then you have special x-rays while the dye is flowing through your coronary arteries. The dye lets your doctor study the flow of blood through your heart and blood vessels. Echocardiography Echocardiography, or echo, is a painless test that uses sound waves to create moving pictures of your heart. The pictures show the size and shape of your heart. They also show how well your heart's chambers and valves are working. Doctors use an echo to diagnose many different heart problems, and to check how severe they are. For the test, a technician applies gel to your chest. The gel helps sound waves reach your heart. The technician moves a transducer (wand-like device) around on your chest. The transducer connects to a computer. It transmits ultrasound waves into your chest, and the waves bounce (echo) back. The computer converts the echoes into pictures of your heart. Electrocardiogram (EKG), (ECG) An electrocardiogram, also called an ECG or EKG, is a painless test that detects and records your heart's electrical activity. It shows how fast your heart is beating and whether its rhythm is steady or irregular. An EKG may be part of a routine exam to screen for heart disease. Or you may get it to detect and study heart problems such as heart attacks, arrhythmia , and heart failure. For the test, you lie still on a table and a nurse or technician attaches electrodes (patches that have sensors) to the skin on your chest, arms, and legs. Wires connect the electrodes to a machine that records your heart's electrical activity. Stress Testing Stress testing looks at how your heart works during physical stress. It can help to diagnose coronary artery disease, and to check how severe it is. It can also check for other problems, including heart valve disease and heart failure. For the test, you exercise (or are given medicine if you are unable to exercise) to make your heart work hard and beat fast. While this is happening, you get an EKG and blood pressure monitoring. Sometimes you may also have an echocardiogram, or other imaging tests such as a nuclear scan . For the nuclear scan, you get an injection of a tracer (a radioactive substance), which travels to your heart. Special cameras detect the energy from the tracer to make pictures of your heart. You have pictures taken after you exercise, and then after you rest. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/heartsurgery.html,"Heart surgery is used to fix certain problems with the heart. Learn about the different procedures, and why someone might need them."," Heart surgery can correct problems with the heart if other treatments haven't worked or can't be used. The most common type of heart surgery for adults is coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). During CABG, a healthy artery or vein from the body is connected, or grafted, to a blocked coronary (heart) artery. Doctors also use heart surgery to Repair or replace heart valves , which control blood flow through the heart Repair abnormal or damaged structures in the heart Implant medical devices that help control the heartbeat or support heart function and blood flow Replace a damaged heart with a healthy heart from a donor Treat heart failure and coronary heart disease Control abnormal heart rhythms Heart surgery has risks, even though its results often are excellent. Risks include bleeding, infection, irregular heartbeats, and stroke. The risk is higher if you are older or a woman. The risk is also higher if you have other diseases or conditions, such as diabetes, kidney disease, lung disease, or peripheral arterial disease. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/hearttransplantation.html,"A heart transplant removes a damaged or diseased heart and replaces it with a healthy one. Read about the surgery, risks, and living with a transplant."," A heart transplant removes a damaged or diseased heart and replaces it with a healthy one. The healthy heart comes from a donor who has died. It is the last resort for people with heart failure when all other treatments have failed. The heart failure might have been caused by coronary heart disease, damaged heart valves or heart muscles, congenital heart defects, or viral infections of the heart. Although heart transplant surgery is a life-saving measure, it has many risks. Careful monitoring, treatment, and regular medical care can prevent or help manage some of these risks. After the surgery, most heart transplant patients can return to their normal levels of activity. However, fewer than 30% return to work for many different reasons. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heart Valve Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/heartvalvediseases.html,Heart valves make sure blood flows in then out of your heart. If they don't work properly and heart valve disease occurs. Learn more.," Your heart has four valves. Normally, these valves open to let blood flow through or out of your heart, and then shut to keep it from flowing backward. But sometimes they don't work properly. If they don't, you could have Regurgitation - when blood leaks back through the valve in the wrong direction Mitral valve prolapse - when one of the valves, the mitral valve, has ""floppy"" flaps and doesn't close tightly. It's one of the most common heart valve conditions. Sometimes it causes regurgitation. Stenosis - when the valve doesn't open enough and blocks blood flow Valve problems can be present at birth or caused by infections, heart attacks, or heart disease or damage. The main sign of heart valve disease is an unusual heartbeat sound called a heart murmur. Your doctor can hear a heart murmur with a stethoscope. But many people have heart murmurs without having a problem. Heart tests can show if you have a heart valve disease. Some valve problems are minor and do not need treatment. Others might require medicine, medical procedures, or surgery to repair or replace the valve. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Heartburn,https://medlineplus.gov/heartburn.html,Looking for heartburn remedies?  Find out more about heartburn (pyrosis) and how to relieve this type of indigestion. ," Heartburn is a painful burning feeling in your chest or throat. It happens when stomach acid backs up into your esophagus, the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. If you have heartburn more than twice a week, you may have GERD . But you can have GERD without having heartburn. Pregnancy, certain foods, alcohol, and some medications can bring on heartburn. Treating heartburn is important because over time reflux can damage the esophagus. Over-the-counter medicines may help. If the heartburn continues, you may need prescription medicines or surgery. If you have other symptoms such as crushing chest pain, it could be a heart attack . Get help immediately."
Heat Illness,https://medlineplus.gov/heatillness.html,"During hot weather, especially with high humidity, sweating isn't enough and your temperature can rise and cause heat illnesses like heat exhaustion."," Your body normally cools itself by sweating. During hot weather, especially when it is very humid, sweating just isn't enough to cool you off. Your body temperature can rise to dangerous levels and you can develop a heat illness. Most heat illnesses happen when you stay out in the heat too long. Exercising and working outside in high heat can also lead to heat illness. Older adults, young children, and those who are sick or overweight are most at risk. Taking certain medicines or drinking alcohol can also raise your risk. Heat-related illnesses include Heat stroke - a life-threatening illness in which body temperature may rise above 106 F (41 C) in minutes. Symptoms include dry skin, a rapid, strong pulse, dizziness, nausea, and confusion. If you see any of these signs, get medical help right away. Heat exhaustion - an illness that can happen after several days of exposure to high temperatures and not enough fluids. Symptoms include heavy sweating, rapid breathing, and a fast, weak pulse. If it is not treated, it can turn into heat stroke. Heat cramps - muscle pains or spasms that happen during heavy exercise. You usually get them in your abdomen, arms, or legs. Heat rash - skin irritation from excessive sweating. It is more common in young children. You can lower your risk of heat illness by drinking fluids to prevent dehydration , replacing lost salt and minerals, and limiting your time in the heat. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Heel Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/heelinjuriesanddisorders.html,Heel problems are common and painful. What causes heel pain? Read more about causes and conditions that can result from heel problems.," Heel problems are common and can be painful. Often, they result from too much stress on your heel bone and the tissues that surround it. That stress can come from Injuries Bruises that you get walking, running or jumping Wearing shoes that don't fit or aren't made well Being overweight These can lead to tendinitis, bursitis, and fasciitis, which are all types of inflammation of the tissues that surround your heel. Over time the stress can cause bone spurs and deformities. Certain diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and gout, can also lead to heel problems. Treatments for heel problems might include rest, medicines, exercises, taping, and special shoes. Surgery is rarely needed."
Helicobacter Pylori Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/helicobacterpyloriinfections.html,H. Pylori is a bacterium that can infect the stomach. Being infected is associated with an increased risk of developing peptic ulcers. Learn more.," Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria that causes infection in the stomach. It is the main cause of peptic ulcers , and it can also cause gastritis and stomach cancer . About 30 to 40% of people in the United States get an H. pylori infection. Most people get it as a child. H. pylori usually does not cause symptoms. But it can break down the inner protective coating in some people's stomachs and cause inflammation. This can lead to gastritis or a peptic ulcer. Researchers aren't sure how H. pylori spreads. They think that it may spread by unclean food and water, or through contact with an infected person's saliva and other body fluids. A peptic ulcer causes a dull or burning pain in your stomach, especially when you have an empty stomach. It lasts for minutes to hours, and it may come and go for several days or weeks. It may also cause other symptoms, such as bloating, nausea, and weight loss. If you have the symptoms of a peptic ulcer, your health care provider will check to see whether you have H. pylori. There are blood, breath, and stool tests to check for H. pylori. In some cases, you may need an upper endoscopy , often with a biopsy . If you do have a peptic ulcer, the treatment is with a combination of antibiotics and acid-reducing medicines. You will need to be tested again after treatment to make sure the infection is gone. There is no vaccine for H. pylori. Since H. pylori might spread through unclean food and water, you might be able to prevent it if you Wash your hands after using the bathroom and before eating Eat properly prepared food Drink water from a clean, safe source NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hemochromatosis,https://medlineplus.gov/hemochromatosis.html,Hemochromatosis is an iron overload disease (too much iron in the body). The extra iron can build up in organs and cause damage. Find out how.," Hemochromatosis is a disease in which too much iron builds up in your body. Your body needs iron but too much of it is toxic. If you have hemochromatosis, you absorb more iron than you need. Your body has no natural way to get rid of the extra iron. It stores it in body tissues, especially the liver, heart, and pancreas. The extra iron can damage your organs. Without treatment, it can cause your organs to fail. There are two types of hemochromatosis. Primary hemochromatosis is an inherited disease. Secondary hemochromatosis is usually the result of something else, such as anemia, thalassemia, liver disease, or blood transfusions. Many symptoms of hemochromatosis are similar to those of other diseases. Not everyone has symptoms. If you do, you may have joint pain, fatigue, general weakness, weight loss, and stomach pain. Your doctor will diagnose hemochromatosis based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures. Treatments include removing blood (and iron) from your body, medicines, and changes in your diet. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Hemophilia,https://medlineplus.gov/hemophilia.html,Hemophilia is a rare disorder in which the blood does not clot normally. Usually hemophilia usually occurs in males and is inherited. Learn more.," Hemophilia is a rare disorder in which the blood does not clot normally. It is usually inherited. Hemophilia usually occurs in males. If you have hemophilia, you have little or no clotting factor. Clotting factor is a protein needed for normal blood clotting. Without it, you may bleed for a long time after an injury or accident. You also may bleed into your knees, ankles, and elbows. Bleeding in the joints causes pain and, if not treated, can lead to arthritis. Bleeding in the brain, a very serious complication of hemophilia, requires emergency treatment. The main symptoms of hemophilia are excessive bleeding and easy bruising. Blood tests can tell if you have it. The main treatment is injecting the missing clotting factor into the bloodstream. You may need it on a regular basis, or just when bleeding occurs. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Hemorrhagic Fevers,https://medlineplus.gov/hemorrhagicfevers.html,"Viral hemorrhagic fevers are a group of illnesses caused by four families of viruses including Ebola and Marburg, Lassa fever, and yellow fever. "," Viral hemorrhagic fevers (VHFs) are a group of illnesses caused by four families of viruses. These include the Ebola and Marburg, Lassa fever, and yellow fever viruses. VHFs have common features: they affect many organs, they damage the blood vessels, and they affect the body's ability to regulate itself. Some VHFs cause mild disease, but some, like Ebola or Marburg, cause severe disease and death. VHFs are found around the world. Specific diseases are usually limited to areas where the animals that carry them live. For example, Lassa fever is limited to rural areas of West Africa where rats and mice carry the virus. The risk for travelers is low, but you should avoid visiting areas where there are disease outbreaks. Because there are no effective treatments for some of these viral infections, there is concern about their use in bioterrorism . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Hemorrhagic Stroke,https://medlineplus.gov/hemorrhagicstroke.html,Hemorrhagic stroke happens when a blood vessel breaks and bleeds into the brain. Learn about the symptoms and genetics behind hemorrhagic stroke.," A stroke is a medical emergency. There are two types - ischemic and hemorrhagic. Hemorrhagic stroke is the less common type. It happens when a blood vessel breaks and bleeds into the brain. Within minutes, brain cells begin to die. Causes include a bleeding aneurysm , an arteriovenous malformation (AVM), or an artery wall that breaks open. Symptoms of stroke are Sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg (especially on one side of the body) Sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding speech Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes Sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination Sudden severe headache with no known cause It is important to treat strokes as quickly as possible. With a hemorrhagic stroke, the first steps are to find the cause of bleeding in the brain and then control it. Surgery may be needed. Post-stroke rehabilitation can help people overcome disabilities caused by stroke damage. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Hemorrhoids,https://medlineplus.gov/hemorrhoids.html,Hemorrhoids (piles) are swollen veins that sometimes protrude from the anus. Read these tips to find relief from uncomfortable symptoms. ," What are hemorrhoids? Hemorrhoids are swollen, inflamed veins around your anus or the lower part of your rectum . There are two types: External hemorrhoids, which form under the skin around your anus Internal hemorrhoids, which form in the lining of your anus and lower rectum What causes hemorrhoids? Hemorrhoids happen when there is too much pressure on the veins around the anus. This can be caused by Straining during bowel movements Sitting on the toilet for long periods of time Chronic constipation or diarrhea A low- fiber diet Weakening of the supporting tissues in your anus and rectum. This can happen with aging and pregnancy . Frequently lifting heavy objects What are the symptoms of hemorrhoids? The symptoms of hemorrhoids depend on which type you have: With external hemorrhoids, you may have Anal itching One or more hard, tender lumps near your anus Anal pain, especially when sitting Too much straining, rubbing, or cleaning around your anus may make your symptoms worse. For many people, the symptoms of external hemorrhoids go away within a few days. With internal hemorrhoids, you may have Bleeding from your rectum - you would see bright red blood in your stool, on toilet paper, or in the toilet bowl after a bowel movement Prolapse, which is a hemorrhoid that has fallen through your anal opening Internal hemorrhoids are usually not painful unless they are prolapsed. Prolapsed internal hemorrhoids may cause pain and discomfort. How can I treat hemorrhoids at home? You can most often treat your hemorrhoids at home by Eating foods that are high in fiber Taking a stool softener or a fiber supplement Drinking enough fluids every day Not straining during bowel movements Not sitting on the toilet for long periods of time Taking over-the-counter pain relievers Taking warm baths several times a day to help relieve pain. This could be a regular bath or a sitz bath. With a sitz bath, you use a special plastic tub that allows you to sit in a few inches of warm water. Using over-the-counter hemorrhoid creams, ointments, or suppositories to relieve mild pain, swelling, and itching of external hemorrhoids When do I need to see a health care provider for hemorrhoids? You should see your health care provider if you Still have symptoms after 1 week of at-home treatment Have bleeding from your rectum. Hemorrhoids are a common cause of bleeding, but other conditions can also cause bleeding. They include Crohn's disease , ulcerative colitis , colorectal cancer , and anal cancer . So it's important to see your provider to find the cause of the bleeding. How are hemorrhoids diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history Will do a physical exam. Often providers can diagnose external hemorrhoids by looking at the area around your anus. Will do a digital rectal exam to check for internal hemorrhoids. For this, the provider will insert a lubricated, gloved finger into the rectum to feel for anything that is abnormal. May do procedures such as an anoscopy to check for internal hemorrhoids What are the treatments for hemorrhoids? If at-home treatments for hemorrhoids don't help you, you may need a medical procedure. There are several different procedures that your provider can do in the office. These procedures use different techniques to cause scar tissue to form in the hemorrhoids. This cuts off the blood supply, which usually shrinks the hemorrhoids. In severe cases, you may need surgery. Can hemorrhoids be prevented? You can help prevent hemorrhoids by Eating foods that are high in fiber Taking a stool softener or a fiber supplement Drinking enough fluids every day Not straining during bowel movements Not sitting on the toilet for long periods of time NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hepatitis,https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitis.html,"The word ""hepatitis"" means inflammation of the liver. There are five main hepatitis viruses (A, B, C, D or E). Learn about the different types here."," What is hepatitis? Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver . Inflammation is swelling that happens when tissues of the body are injured or infected. It can damage your liver. This swelling and damage can affect how well your liver functions. Hepatitis can be an acute (short-term) infection or a chronic (long-term) infection. Some types of hepatitis cause only acute infections. Other types can cause both acute and chronic infections. What causes hepatitis? There are different types of hepatitis, with different causes: Viral hepatitis is the most common type. It is caused by one of several viruses -- hepatitis viruses A , B , C , D, and E. In the United States, A, B, and C are the most common. Alcoholic hepatitis is caused by heavy alcohol use Toxic hepatitis can be caused by certain poisons, chemicals, medicines, or supplements Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic type in which your body's immune system attacks your liver. The cause is not known, but genetics and your environment may play a role. How is viral hepatitis spread? Hepatitis A and hepatitis E usually spread through contact with food or water that was contaminated with an infected person's stool. You can also get hepatitis E by eating undercooked pork, deer, or shellfish. Hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and hepatitis D spread through contact with the blood of someone who has the disease. Hepatitis B and D may also spread through contact with other body fluids. This can happen in many ways, such as sharing drug needles or having unprotected sex. Who is at risk for hepatitis? The risks are different for the different types of hepatitis. For example, with most of the viral types, your risk is higher if you have unprotected sex. People who drink a lot over long periods of time are at risk for alcoholic hepatitis. What are the symptoms of hepatitis? Some people with hepatitis do not have symptoms and do not know they are infected. If you do have symptoms, they may include Fever Fatigue Loss of appetite Nausea and/or vomiting Abdominal pain Dark urine Clay-colored bowel movements Joint pain Jaundice , yellowing of your skin and eyes If you have an acute infection, your symptoms can start anywhere between 2 weeks to 6 months after you got infected. If you have a chronic infection, you may not have symptoms until many years later. What other problems can hepatitis cause? Chronic hepatitis can lead to complications such as cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver failure, and liver cancer . Early diagnosis and treatment of chronic hepatitis may prevent these complications. How is hepatitis diagnosed? To diagnose hepatitis, your health care provider Will ask about your symptoms and medical history Will do a physical exam Will likely do blood tests, including tests for viral hepatitis Might do imaging tests , such as an ultrasound , CT scan , or MRI May need to do a liver biopsy to get a clear diagnosis and check for liver damage What are the treatments for hepatitis? Treatment for hepatitis depends on which type you have and whether it is acute or chronic. Acute viral hepatitis often goes away on its own. To feel better, you may just need to rest and get enough fluids. But in some cases, it may be more serious. You might even need treatment in a hospital. There are different medicines to treat the different chronic types of hepatitis. Possible other treatments may include surgery and other medical procedures. People who have alcoholic hepatitis need to stop drinking. If your chronic hepatitis leads to liver failure or liver cancer, you may need a liver transplant . Can hepatitis be prevented? There are different ways to prevent or lower your risk for hepatitis, depending on the type of hepatitis. For example, not drinking too much alcohol can prevent alcoholic hepatitis. There are vaccines to prevent hepatitis A and B. Autoimmune hepatitis cannot be prevented. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hepatitis A,https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisa.html,Hepatitis A virus can infect people who accidentally ingest fecal matter in contaminated food or water or through personal contact. More on HAV here.," What is Hepatitis? Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver . Inflammation is swelling that happens when tissues of the body are injured or infected. It can damage your liver. This swelling and damage can affect how well your liver functions. What is hepatitis A? Hepatitis A is a type of viral hepatitis. It causes an acute, or short-term, infection. This means that people usually get better without treatment after a few weeks. Thanks to a vaccine, hepatitis A is not very common in the United States. What causes hepatitis A? Hepatitis A is caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus spreads through contact with an infected person's stool. This can happen if you Eat food made by someone who has the virus and did not properly wash their hands after using the bathroom Drink contaminated water or eat foods that were rinsed with contaminated water Have close personal contact with someone who has hepatitis A. This could be through certain types of sex (like oral-anal sex), taking care of someone who is ill, or using illegal drugs with others. Who is at risk for hepatitis A? Although anyone can get hepatitis A, you are at higher risk if you Travel to developing countries Have sex with someone who has hepatitis A Are a man who has sex with men Use illegal drugs Are experiencing homelessness Live with or care for someone who has hepatitis A Live with or care for a child recently adopted from a country where hepatitis A is common What are the symptoms of hepatitis A? Not everyone with hepatitis A has symptoms. Adults are more likely to have symptoms than children. If you do have symptoms, they usually start 2 to 7 weeks after infection. They can include Dark yellow urine Diarrhea Fatigue Fever Gray- or clay-colored stools Joint pain Loss of appetite Nausea and/or vomiting Abdominal pain Yellowish eyes and skin, called jaundice The symptoms usually last less than 2 months, although some people can be ill for as long as 6 months. You are at a higher risk of getting a more severe infection from hepatitis A if you also have HIV , hepatitis B , or hepatitis C . What other problems can hepatitis A cause? In rare cases, hepatitis A may lead to liver failure. This is more common in adults over age 50 and in people who have another liver . How is hepatitis A diagnosed? To diagnose hepatitis A, your health care provider may use many tools: A medical history, which includes asking about your symptoms A physical exam Blood tests, including tests for viral hepatitis What are the treatments for hepatitis A? There is no specific treatment for hepatitis A. The best way to recover is to rest, drink plenty of liquids, and eat healthy foods. Your provider may also suggest medicines to help relieve symptoms. In more severe cases, you may need care in a hospital. Can hepatitis A be prevented? The best way to prevent hepatitis A is to get the hepatitis A vaccine. It is also important to have good hygiene , especially washing your hands thoroughly after you go to the bathroom. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hepatitis B,https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisb.html,Hepatitis B virus is a contagious liver infection spread from person-to-person via blood or body fluids. Who is at risk for HBV? Read about it here.," What is hepatitis? Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver . Inflammation is swelling that happens when tissues of the body are injured or infected. It can damage your liver. This swelling and damage can affect how well your liver functions. What is hepatitis B? Hepatitis B is a type of viral hepatitis. It can cause an acute (short-term) or chronic (long-term) infection. People with an acute infection usually get better on their own without treatment. Some people with chronic hepatitis B will need treatment. Thanks to a vaccine, hepatitis B is not very common in the United States. It is more common in certain parts of the world, such as sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Asia. What causes hepatitis B? Hepatitis B is caused by the hepatitis B virus. The virus spreads through contact with blood, semen, or other body fluids from a person who has the virus. Who is at risk for hepatitis B? Anyone can get hepatitis B, but the risk is higher in Infants born to mothers who have hepatitis B People who inject drugs or share needles, syringes, and other types of drug equipment Sex partners of people with hepatitis B, especially if they are not using latex or polyurethane condoms during sex Men who have sex with men People who live with someone who has hepatitis B, especially if they use the same razor, toothbrush, or nail clippers Health care and public-safety workers who are exposed to blood on the job Hemodialysis patients People who have lived in or traveled often to parts of the world where hepatitis B is common Have diabetes , hepatitis C , or HIV What are the symptoms of hepatitis B? Often, people with hepatitis B don't have symptoms. Adults and children over 5 are more likely to have symptoms than younger children. Some people with acute hepatitis B have symptoms 2 to 5 months after infection. These symptoms can include Dark yellow urine Diarrhea Fatigue Fever Gray- or clay-colored stools Joint pain Loss of appetite Nausea and/or vomiting Abdominal pain Yellowish eyes and skin, called jaundice If you have chronic hepatitis B, you may not have symptoms until complications develop. This could be decades after you were infected. For this reason, hepatitis B screening is important, even if you have no symptoms. Screening means that you are tested for a disease even though you don't have symptoms. If you are at high risk, your health care provider may suggest screening. What other problems can hepatitis B cause? In rare cases, acute hepatitis B can cause liver failure. Chronic hepatitis B can develop into a serious disease that causes long-term health problems such as cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver cancer , and liver failure. If you have ever had hepatitis B, the virus may become active again, or reactivated, later in life. This could start to damage the liver and cause symptoms. How is hepatitis B diagnosed? To diagnose hepatitis B, your health care provider may use many tools to make a diagnosis: A medical history, which includes asking about your symptoms A physical exam Blood tests, including tests for viral hepatitis What are the treatments for hepatitis B? If you have acute hepatitis B, you probably don't need treatment. Some people with chronic hepatitis B don't need treatment. But if you have a chronic infection and blood tests show that hepatitis B could be damaging your liver, you may need to take antiviral medicines. Can hepatitis B be prevented? The best way to prevent hepatitis B is to get the hepatitis B vaccine. You can also reduce your chance of hepatitis B infection by Not sharing drug needles or other drug materials Wearing gloves if you have to touch another person's blood or open sores Making sure your tattoo artist or body piercer uses sterile tools Not sharing personal items, such as toothbrushes, razors, or nail clippers Using a latex condom during sex. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. If you think you have been in contact with the hepatitis B virus, see your health care provider right away. Your provider may give you a dose of the hepatitis B vaccine to prevent infection. In some cases, your provider may also give you a medicine called hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG). You need to get the vaccine and the HBIG (if needed) as soon as possible after coming into contact with the virus. It is best if you can get them within 24 hours. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hepatitis C,https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisc.html,"Hepatitis C virus can spread through contact with infected blood, by sharing needles or needle-stick injuries. Learn who should get tested for HCV."," What is hepatitis C? Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver. Inflammation is swelling that happens when tissues of the body are injured or infected. Inflammation can damage organs. There are different types of hepatitis. One type, hepatitis C, is caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV). Hepatitis C can range from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness. Hepatitis C can be acute or chronic: Acute hepatitis C is a short-term infection. The symptoms can last up to 6 months. Sometimes your body is able to fight off the infection and the virus goes away. But for most people, an acute infection leads to chronic infection. Chronic hepatitis C is a long-lasting infection. If it is not treated, it can last for a lifetime and cause serious health problems, including liver damage, cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver cancer , and even death. How is hepatitis C spread? Hepatitis C spreads through contact with the blood of someone who has HCV. This contact may be through Sharing drug needles or other drug materials with someone who has HCV. In the United States, this is the most common way that people get hepatitis C. Getting an accidental stick with a needle that was used on someone who has HCV. This can happen in health care settings. Being tattooed or pierced with tools or inks that were not sterilized after being used on someone who has HCV Having contact with the blood or open sores of someone who has HCV Sharing personal care items that may have come in contact with another person's blood, such as razors or toothbrushes Being born to a mother with HCV Having unprotected sex with someone who has HCV Before 1992, hepatitis C was also commonly spread through blood transfusions and organ transplants. Since then, there has been routine testing of the U.S. blood supply for HCV. It is now very rare for someone to get HCV this way. Who is at risk for hepatitis C? You are more likely to get hepatitis C if you Have injected drugs Had a blood transfusion or organ transplant before July 1992 Have hemophilia and received clotting factor before 1987 Have been on kidney dialysis Were born between 1945 and 1965 Have abnormal liver tests or liver disease Have been in contact with blood or infected needles at work Have had tattoos or body piercings Have worked or lived in a prison Were born to a mother with hepatitis C Have HIV/AIDS Have had more than one sex partner in the last 6 months Have had a sexually transmitted disease Are a man who has had sex with men If you are at high risk for hepatitis C, your health care provider will likely recommend that you get tested for it. What are the symptoms of hepatitis C? Most people with hepatitis C have no symptoms. Some people with acute hepatitis C do have symptoms within 1 to 3 months after they are exposed to the virus. These symptoms may include Dark yellow urine Fatigue Fever Gray- or clay-colored stools Joint pain Loss of appetite Nausea and/or vomiting Pain in your abdomen Jaundice (yellowish eyes and skin) If you have chronic hepatitis C, you probably will not have symptoms until it causes complications. This can happen decades after you were infected. For this reason, hepatitis C screening is important, even if you have no symptoms. What other problems can hepatitis C cause? Without treatment, hepatitis C may lead to cirrhosis, liver failure, and liver cancer. Early diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C can prevent these complications. How is hepatitis C diagnosed? Health care providers diagnose hepatitis C based on your medical history, a physical exam, and blood tests . If you do have hepatitis C, you may need additional tests to check for liver damage. These tests may include other blood tests, an ultrasound of the liver, and a liver biopsy . What are the treatments for hepatitis C? Treatment for hepatitis C is with antiviral medicines. They can cure the disease in most cases. If you have acute hepatitis C, your health care provider may wait to see if your infection becomes chronic before starting treatment. If your hepatitis C causes cirrhosis, you should see a doctor who specializes in liver diseases. Treatments for health problems related to cirrhosis include medicines, surgery, and other medical procedures. If your hepatitis C leads to liver failure or liver cancer, you may need a liver transplant . Can hepatitis C be prevented? There is no vaccine for hepatitis C. But you can help protect yourself from hepatitis C infection by Not sharing drug needles or other drug materials Wearing gloves if you have to touch another person's blood or open sores Making sure your tattoo artist or body piercer uses sterile tools and unopened ink Not sharing personal items such toothbrushes, razors, or nail clippers Using a latex condom during sex. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hepatitis Testing,https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitistesting.html,"Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver. Some types, like hepatitis A, B, and C, are caused by viruses. Learn about tests to diagnose viral hepatitis."," Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest food, store energy, and remove poisons. Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver. There are different types of hepatitis. Some are caused by viruses. They include hepatitis A , hepatitis B , and hepatitis C . To diagnose hepatitis, your health care provider will ask you about your medical history and symptoms, do a physical exam, and order blood tests. There are blood tests for each type of viral hepatitis. Some tests check for antibodies to the virus. Antibodies are blood proteins that your immune system makes in response to the virus. Other blood tests look for parts of the virus, such as proteins or genetic material. Some tests show that you have the infection now. Other tests show that you have had it at some time, or that you have immunity to it. Doctors use the tests to diagnose hepatitis, and to screen people who are at risk for hepatitis B or C. The risk factors are different for each type. Doctors may also use the tests in people who have hepatitis, to check how contagious they are or to see how well treatment is working."
Herbal Medicine,https://medlineplus.gov/herbalmedicine.html,"Herbal medicines are one type of dietary supplement. They are sold as tablets, capsules, powders, teas, extracts, and plants. Learn more."," An herb is a plant or plant part used for its scent, flavor, or therapeutic properties. Herbal medicines are one type of dietary supplement . They are sold as tablets, capsules, powders, teas, extracts, and fresh or dried plants. People use herbal medicines to try to maintain or improve their health. Many people believe that products labeled ""natural"" are always safe and good for them. This is not necessarily true. Herbal medicines do not have to go through the testing that drugs do. Some herbs, such as comfrey and ephedra, can cause serious harm. Some herbs can interact with prescription or over-the-counter medicines. If you are thinking about using an herbal medicine, first get information on it from reliable sources. Make sure to tell your health care provider about any herbal medicines you are taking. NIH: National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health"
Hernia,https://medlineplus.gov/hernia.html,Hernias can happen to anyone. They're caused by a combination of muscle weakness and strain. Learn about several types and therapies available.," A hernia happens when part of an internal organ or tissue bulges through a weak area of muscle. Most hernias are in the abdomen. There are several types of hernias, including Inguinal, in the groin. This is the the most common type. Umbilical, around the belly button Incisional, through a scar Hiatal , a small opening in the diaphragm that allows the upper part of the stomach to move up into the chest. Congenital diaphragmatic, a birth defect that needs surgery Hernias are common. They can affect men, women, and children. A combination of muscle weakness and straining, such as with heavy lifting, might contribute. Some people are born with weak abdominal muscles and may be more likely to get a hernia. Treatment is usually surgery to repair the opening in the muscle wall. Untreated hernias can cause pain and health problems."
Herniated Disk,https://medlineplus.gov/herniateddisk.html,A herniated or slipped disc means that one of the soft cushions or discs between your vertebrae or spinal bones pushes out. Find out about it here.," Your backbone, or spine, is made up of 26 bones called vertebrae. In between them are soft disks filled with a jelly-like substance. These disks cushion the vertebrae and keep them in place. As you age, the disks break down or degenerate. As they do, they lose their cushioning ability. This can lead to pain if the back is stressed. A herniated disk is a disk that ruptures. This allows the jelly-like center of the disk to leak, irritating the nearby nerves. This can cause sciatica or back pain . Your doctor will diagnose a herniated disk with a physical exam and, sometimes, imaging tests. With treatment, most people recover. Treatments include rest, pain and anti-inflammatory medicines, physical therapy, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Heroin,https://medlineplus.gov/heroin.html,"Heroin is a highly addictive drug made from morphine. It can be injected, snorted, or smoked. Learn about withdrawal symptoms and addiction treatment."," Heroin is a white or brown powder or a black, sticky goo. It's an opioid drug made from morphine, a natural substance in the seedpod of the Asian poppy plant. It can be mixed with water and injected with a needle. Heroin can also be smoked or snorted up the nose. All of these ways of taking heroin send it to the brain very quickly. This makes it very addictive. Major health problems from heroin include miscarriages, heart infections, and death from overdose. People who inject the drug also risk getting infectious diseases, including HIV/AIDS and hepatitis. Regular use of heroin can lead to tolerance. This means users need more and more drug to have the same effect. At higher doses over time, the body becomes dependent on heroin. If dependent users stop heroin, they have withdrawal symptoms. These symptoms include restlessness, muscle and bone pain, diarrhea and vomiting, and cold flashes with goose bumps. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Herpes Simplex,https://medlineplus.gov/herpessimplex.html,"Learn about herpes, a contagious infection caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV). Oral herpes affects the mouth. Genital herpes affects the genitals. "," Herpes is an infection that is caused by a herpes simplex virus (HSV). Oral herpes causes cold sores around the mouth or face. Genital herpes affects the genitals, buttocks or anal area. Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease (STD). It affects the genitals, buttocks or anal area. Other herpes infections can affect the eyes, skin, or other parts of the body. The virus can be dangerous in newborn babies or in people with weak immune systems. There are two types of HSV: HSV type 1 most commonly causes cold sores. It can also cause genital herpes. HSV type 2 is the usual cause of genital herpes, but it also can infect the mouth. HSV spreads through direct contact. Some people have no symptoms. Others get sores near the area where the virus has entered the body. They turn into blisters, become itchy and painful, and then heal. Most people have outbreaks several times a year. Over time, you get them less often. Medicines to help your body fight the virus can help lessen symptoms and decrease outbreaks."
Hiatal Hernia,https://medlineplus.gov/hiatalhernia.html,A hiatal hernia is a result of the upper part of the stomach pushing through the diaphragm into the chest area. Read about symptoms and treatment.," A hiatal hernia is a condition in which the upper part of your stomach bulges through an opening in your diaphragm. Your diaphragm is the thin muscle that separates your chest from your abdomen. Your diaphragm helps keep acid from coming up into your esophagus. When you have a hiatal hernia, it's easier for the acid to come up. This leaking of acid from your stomach into your esophagus is called GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease). GERD may cause symptoms such as Heartburn Problems swallowing A dry cough Bad breath Nausea and/or vomiting Breathing problems The wearing away of your teeth Often, the cause of a hiatal hernia is unknown. It may have to do with weakness in the surrounding muscles. Sometimes the cause is an injury or a birth defect. Your risk of getting a hiatal hernia goes up as you age; they are common in people over age 50. You are also at higher risk if you have obesity or smoke. People usually find out that they have a hiatal hernia when they are getting tests for GERD, heartburn, chest pain , or abdominal pain . The tests may be a chest x-ray, an x-ray with a barium swallow, or an upper endoscopy. You don't need treatment if your hiatal hernia does not cause any symptoms or problems. If you do have symptoms, some lifestyle changes may help. They include eating small meals, avoiding certain foods, not smoking or drinking alcohol, and losing weight. Your health care provider may recommend antacids or other medicines. If these don't help, you may need surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hiccups,https://medlineplus.gov/hiccups.html,What exactly is a hiccup and how do you stop hiccupping once you start? Find out what triggers hiccups and when you should contact your doctor.," What are hiccups? Have you ever wondered what is happening when you hiccup? There are two parts to a hiccup. The first is an involuntary movement of your diaphragm. The diaphragm is a muscle at the base of your lungs. It is the main muscle used for breathing. The second part of a hiccup is a quick closing of your vocal cords. This is what causes the ""hic"" sound you make. What causes hiccups? Hiccups can start and stop for no obvious reason. But they often happen when something irritates your diaphragm, such as Eating too quickly Eating too much Eating hot or spicy foods Drinking alcohol Drinking carbonated drinks Diseases that irritate the nerves that control the diaphragm Feeling nervous or excited A bloated stomach Certain medicines Abdominal surgery Metabolic disorders Central nervous system disorders How can I get rid of hiccups? Hiccups usually go away on their own after a few minutes. You have probably heard different suggestions about how to cure hiccups. There is no proof that they work, but they are not harmful, so you could try them. They include Breathing into a paper bag Drinking or sipping a glass of cold water Holding your breath Gargling with ice water What are the treatments for chronic hiccups? Some people have chronic hiccups. This means that the hiccups last more than a few days or keep coming back. Chronic hiccups can interfere with your sleep, eating, drinking, and talking. If you have chronic hiccups, contact your health care provider. If you have a condition that is causing the hiccups, treating that condition may help. Otherwise, treatment options include medicines, surgery, and other procedures."
Hidradenitis Suppurativa,https://medlineplus.gov/hidradenitissuppurativa.html,"Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), or acne inversa, is a chronic skin disease. It causes painful bumps in your armpits and groin. Learn about treatment."," What is hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)? Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic skin disease. It causes painful, boil-like lumps that form under the skin. It often affects areas where the skin rubs together, such as your armpits and groin. The lumps become inflamed and painful. They often break open, causing abscesses that drain fluid and pus. As the abscesses heal, they can cause scarring of the skin. What causes hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)? The lumps in HS form because of blockages of the hair follicles. The blocked hair follicles trap bacteria, which leads to inflammation and rupture. In most cases, the cause of the blockages is unknown. Genetics, environment, and hormonal factors may play a role. Some cases of HS are caused by changes in certain genes. HS is not caused by bad hygiene, and it cannot be spread to others. Who is at risk for hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)? HS usually starts after puberty, usually in the teens or twenties. It is more common in Women People with a family history of HS People who are overweight or have obesity Smokers What are the symptoms of hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)? The symptoms of HS include Small pitted areas of skin containing blackheads Painful, red, lumps that get bigger and break open. This causes abscesses that drain fluid and pus. They may itch and have an unpleasant odor. The abscesses heal very slowly, recur over time, and can lead to scarring and tunnels under the skin HS can be mild, moderate, or severe: In mild HS, there are only one or a few lumps in one area of the skin. A mild case will often get worse, becoming a moderate disease. Moderate HS include recurrences of the lumps that get bigger and break open. The lumps form in more than one area of the body. With severe HS, there are widespread lumps, scarring, and chronic pain that may make it hard to move Because of the difficulty of dealing with the disease, people with HS are at risk for depression and anxiety . How is hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) diagnosed? There is no specific test for HS, and it is often misdiagnosed in the early stages. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will ask about your medical history and your symptoms. He or she will look at the lumps on your skin and test a sample of the skin or pus (if there is any). What are the treatments for hidradenitis suppurativa? There is no cure for HS. Treatments focus on the symptoms, but they are not always effective for everyone. The treatments depend on how severe the disease is, and they include Medicines , including steroids , antibiotics , pain relievers , and medicines that flight inflammation. In mild cases, the medicines may be topical. This means that you apply them to your skin. Otherwise the medicines may be injected or taken orally (by mouth). Surgery for severe cases, to remove the lumps and scars It may also help if you can avoid things that can irritate your skin, by Wearing loose-fitting clothing Staying at a healthy weight Quitting smoking Avoiding heat and humidity Being careful not to injure your skin"
High Blood Pressure,https://medlineplus.gov/highbloodpressure.html,High blood pressure (hypertension) doesn't have any initial symptoms but could cause health-related problems later. Find out what you can do to control it.," What is blood pressure? Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your arteries. Each time your heart beats, it pumps blood into the arteries. Your blood pressure is highest when your heart beats, pumping the blood. This is called systolic pressure. When your heart is at rest, between beats, your blood pressure falls. This is called diastolic pressure. Your blood pressure reading uses these two numbers. Usually the systolic number comes before or above the diastolic number. For example, 120/80 means a systolic of 120 and a diastolic of 80. How is high blood pressure diagnosed? High blood pressure usually has no symptoms. So the only way to find out if you have it is to get regular blood pressure checks from your health care provider. Your provider will use a gauge, a stethoscope or electronic sensor, and a blood pressure cuff. He or she will take two or more readings at separate appointments before making a diagnosis. Blood Pressure Category Systolic Blood Pressure Diastolic Blood Pressure Normal Less than 120 and Less than 80 High Blood Pressure (no other heart risk factors) 140 or higher or 90 or higher High Blood Pressure (with other heart risk factors, according to some providers) 130 or higher or 80 or higher Dangerously high blood pressure - seek medical care right away 180 or higher and 120 or higher For children and teens, the health care provider compares the blood pressure reading to what is normal for other kids who are the same age, height, and sex. What are the different types of high blood pressure? There are two main types of high blood pressure: primary and secondary high blood pressure. Primary, or essential, high blood pressure is the most common type of high blood pressure. For most people who get this kind of blood pressure, it develops over time as you get older. Secondary high blood pressure is caused by another medical condition or use of certain medicines. It usually gets better after you treat that condition or stop taking the medicines that are causing it. Why do I need to worry about high blood pressure? When your blood pressure stays high over time, it causes the heart to pump harder and work overtime, possibly leading to serious health problems such as heart attack , stroke , heart failure , and kidney failure . What are the treatments for high blood pressure? Treatments for high blood pressure include heart-healthy lifestyle changes and medicines . You will work with your provider to come up with a treatment plan. It may include only the lifestyle changes. These changes, such as heart-healthy eating and exercise, can be very effective. But sometimes the changes do not control or lower your high blood pressure. Then you may need to take medicine. There are different types of blood pressure medicines. Some people need to take more than one type. If your high blood pressure is caused by another medical condition or medicine, treating that condition or stopping the medicine may lower your blood pressure. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/highbloodpressureinpregnancy.html,Find out about high-blood pressure during pregnancy. Some women with high-blood pressure develop preeclampsia. Learn how to avoid complications.," What is high blood pressure in pregnancy? Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood. High blood pressure , or hypertension, is when this force against your artery walls is too high. There are different types of high blood pressure in pregnancy: Gestational hypertension is high blood pressure that you develop while you are pregnant. It starts after you are 20 weeks pregnant. You usually don't have any other symptoms. In many cases, it does not harm you or your baby, and it goes away within 12 weeks after childbirth. But it does raise your risk of high blood pressure in the future. It sometimes can be severe, which may lead to low birth weight or preterm birth. Some women with gestational hypertension do go on to develop preeclampsia. Chronic hypertension is high blood pressure that started before the 20th week of pregnancy or before you became pregnant. Some women may have had it long before becoming pregnant but didn't know it until they got their blood pressure checked at their prenatal visit . Sometimes chronic hypertension can also lead to preeclampsia. Preeclampsia is a sudden increase in blood pressure after the 20th week of pregnancy. It usually happens in the last trimester. In rare cases, symptoms may not start until after delivery. This is called postpartum preeclampsia. Preeclampsia also includes signs of damage to some of your organs, such as your liver or kidney. The signs may include protein in the urine and very high blood pressure. Preeclampsia can be serious or even life-threatening for both you and your baby. What causes preeclampsia? The cause of preeclampsia is unknown. Who is at risk for preeclampsia? You are at higher risk of preeclampsia if you Had chronic high blood pressure or chronic kidney disease before pregnancy Had high blood pressure or preeclampsia in a previous pregnancy Have obesity Are over age 40 Are pregnant with more than one baby Are African American Have a family history of preeclampsia Have certain health conditions, such as diabetes , lupus , or thrombophilia (a disorder which raises your risk of blood clots ) Used in vitro fertilization, egg donation, or donor insemination What problems can preeclampsia cause? Preeclampsia can cause Placental abruption, where the placenta separates from the uterus Poor fetal growth, caused by a lack of nutrients and oxygen Preterm birth A low birth weight baby Stillbirth Damage to your kidneys, liver, brain, and other organ and blood systems A higher risk of heart disease for you Eclampsia, which happens when preeclampsia is severe enough to affect brain function, causing seizures or coma HELLP syndrome, which happens when a woman with preeclampsia or eclampsia has damage to the liver and blood cells. It is rare, but very serious. What are the symptoms of preeclampsia? Possible symptoms of preeclampsia include High blood pressure Too much protein in your urine (called proteinuria) Swelling in your face and hands. Your feet may also swell, but many women have swollen feet during pregnancy. So swollen feet by themselves may not be a sign of a problem. Headache that does not go away Vision problems, including blurred vision or seeing spots Pain in your upper right abdomen Trouble breathing Eclampsia can also cause seizures, nausea and/or vomiting, and low urine output. If you go on to develop HELLP syndrome, you may also have bleeding or bruising easily, extreme fatigue, and liver failure. How is preeclampsia diagnosed? Your health care provider will check your blood pressure and urine at each prenatal visit. If your blood pressure reading is high (140/90 or higher), especially after the 20th week of pregnancy, your provider will likely want to run some tests. They may include blood tests other lab tests to look for extra protein in the urine as well as other symptoms. What are the treatments for preeclampsia? Delivering the baby can often cure preeclampsia. When making a decision about treatment, your provider take into account several factors. They include how severe it is, how many weeks pregnant you are, and what the potential risks to you and your baby are: If you are more than 37 weeks pregnant, your provider will likely want to deliver the baby. If you are less than 37 weeks pregnant, your health care provider will closely monitor you and your baby. This includes blood and urine tests for you. Monitoring for the baby often involves ultrasound, heart rate monitoring, and checking on the baby's growth. You may need to take medicines, to control your blood pressure and to prevent seizures. Some women also get steroid injections, to help the baby's lungs mature faster. If the preeclampsia is severe, you provider may want you to deliver the baby early. The symptoms usually go away within 6 weeks of delivery. In rare cases, symptoms may not go away, or they may not start until after delivery (postpartum preeclampsia). This can be very serious, and it needs to be treated right away."
High Cholesterol in Children and Teens,https://medlineplus.gov/highcholesterolinchildrenandteens.html,"High cholesterol isnt just a problem for adults. Learn about which children and teens are at risk for high cholesterol, and what they can do to lower their cholesterol."," What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in the body. The liver makes cholesterol, and it is also in some foods, such as meat and dairy products. The body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if your child or teen has high cholesterol (too much cholesterol in the blood), he or she has a higher risk of coronary artery disease and other heart diseases . What causes high cholesterol in children and teens? Three main factors contribute to high cholesterol in children and teens: An unhealthy diet, especially one that is high in fats A family history of high cholesterol, especially when one or both parents have high cholesterol Obesity Some diseases, such as diabetes , kidney disease , and certain thyroid diseases , can also cause high cholesterol in children and teens. What are the symptoms of high cholesterol in children and teens? There are usually no signs or symptoms that your child or teen has high cholesterol. How do I know if my child or teen has high cholesterol? There is a blood test to measure cholesterol levels. The test gives information about Total cholesterol - a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in your blood. It includes both low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol. LDL (bad) cholesterol - the main source of cholesterol buildup and blockage in the arteries HDL (good) cholesterol - HDL helps remove cholesterol from your arteries Non-HDL - this number is your total cholesterol minus your HDL. Your non-HDL includes LDL and other types of cholesterol such as VLDL (very-low-density lipoprotein). Triglycerides - another form of fat in your blood that can raise your risk for heart disease For anyone aged 19 or younger, the healthy levels of cholesterol are Type of Cholesterol Healthy Level Total Cholesterol Less than 170mg/dL Non-HDL Less than 120mg/dL LDL Less than 100mg/dL HDL More than 45mg/dL When and how often your child or teen should get this test depends on his or her age, risk factors, and family history. The general recommendations are: The first test should be between ages 9 to 11 Children should have the test again every 5 years Some children may have this test starting at age 2 if there is a family history of high blood cholesterol, heart attack, or stroke What are the treatments for high cholesterol in children and teens? Lifestyle changes are the main treatment for high cholesterol in children and teens. These changes include Being more active. This includes getting regular exercise and spending less time sitting (in front of a television, at a computer, on a phone or tablet, etc.) Healthy eating. A diet to lower cholesterol includes limiting foods that are high in saturated fat, sugar, and trans fat. It is also important to eat plenty of fresh fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Losing weight, if your child or teen is overweight or has obesity If everyone in the family makes these changes, it will be easier for your child or teen to stick to them. It is also an opportunity to improve your health, and the health of the rest of your family. Sometimes these lifestyle changes are not enough to lower your child or teen's cholesterol. Your health care provider may consider giving your child or teen cholesterol medicines if he or she Is at least 10 years old Has an LDL (bad) cholesterol level that is higher than 190 mg/dL, even after six months of diet and exercise changes Has an LDL (bad) cholesterol level that is higher than 160 mg/dL AND is at high risk for heart disease Has an inherited type of high cholesterol"
Hip Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/hipinjuriesanddisorders.html,Take a look at some common and not so common hip injuries and disorders. Find tests and details on different problems of the hip and clinical trials.," Your hip is the joint where your femur (thigh bone) meets your pelvis (hip bone). There are two main parts: a ball at the end of the femur, which fits in a socket in the pelvis. Your hip is known as a ball-and-socket joint. This is because you have a ball at the end of your femur, and it fits into a socket in your pelvis. This makes your hips very stable and allows for a wide range of motion. When they are healthy, it takes great force to hurt them. However, playing sports, running, overuse, or falling can sometimes lead to hip injuries such as Strains Bursitis Dislocations Fractures (broken bones) Certain diseases also lead to hip injuries or problems. Osteoarthritis can cause pain and limited motion. Osteoporosis of the hip causes weak bones that break easily. Both of these are common in older people. Another problem is hip dysplasia, where the ball at the end of the femur is loose in the hip socket. It can cause hip dislocation. Babies who have hip dysplasia are usually born with it, but sometimes they develop it later. Treatment for hip disorders may include rest, medicines, physical therapy, or surgery, including hip replacement ."
Hip Replacement,https://medlineplus.gov/hipreplacement.html,Hip arthroplasty (or hip replacement surgery) involves replacing a damaged hip joint with an artificial one to reduce pain and improve mobility. ," Hip replacement is surgery for people with severe hip damage. The most common cause of damage is osteoarthritis . Osteoarthritis causes pain, swelling, and reduced motion in your joints. It can interfere with your daily activities. If other treatments such as physical therapy, pain medicines, and exercise haven't helped, hip replacement surgery might be an option for you. During a hip replacement operation, the surgeon removes damaged cartilage and bone from your hip joint and replaces them with new, man-made parts. A hip replacement can Relieve pain Help your hip joint work better Improve walking and other movements The most common problem after surgery is hip dislocation. Because a man-made hip is smaller than the original joint, the ball can come out of its socket. The surgery can also cause blood clots and infections. With a hip replacement, you might need to avoid certain activities, such as jogging and high-impact sports. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Histoplasmosis,https://medlineplus.gov/histoplasmosis.html,Histoplasmosis is a disease caused by a fungus (or mold) called Histoplasma. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," Histoplasmosis is a disease caused by a fungus (or mold) called Histoplasma. The fungus is common in the eastern and central United States. It grows in soil and material contaminated with bat or bird droppings. You get infected by breathing the fungal spores. You cannot get the infection from someone else. Histoplasmosis is often mild, with no symptoms. If you do get sick, it usually affects your lungs. Symptoms include feeling ill, fever , chest pains , and a dry cough . In severe cases, histoplasmosis spreads to other organs. This is called disseminated disease. It is more common in infants, young children, older adults, and people with immune system problems. Your doctor might do a variety of tests to make the diagnosis, including a chest x-ray, CT scan of the lungs, or examining blood, urine, or tissues for signs of the fungus. Mild cases usually get better without treatment. Treatment of severe or chronic cases is with antifungal drugs. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
HIV/AIDS,https://medlineplus.gov/hivaids.html,HIV kills or damages the body's immune system cells. AIDS is the most advanced stage of infection. Learn more about the symptoms and treatments.," What is HIV? HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by destroying a type of white blood cell that helps your body fight infection. This puts you at risk for serious infections and certain cancers. What is AIDS? AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final stage of infection with HIV. It happens when the body's immune system is badly damaged because of the virus. Not everyone with HIV develops AIDS. How does HIV spread? HIV can spread in different ways: Through unprotected sex with a person with HIV. This is the most common way that it spreads. By sharing drug needles Through contact with the blood of a person with HIV From mother to baby during pregnancy , childbirth, or breastfeeding Who is at risk for HIV infection? Anyone can get HIV, but certain groups have a higher risk of getting it: People who have another sexually transmitted disease (STD). Having an STD can increase your risk of getting or spreading HIV. People who inject drugs with shared needles  Gay and bisexual men, especially those who are Black/African American or Hispanic/Latino American People who engage in risky sexual behaviors, such as not using condoms What are the symptoms of HIV/AIDS? The first signs of HIV infection may be flu-like symptoms: Fever Chills Rash Night sweats Muscle aches Sore throat Fatigue Swollen lymph nodes Mouth ulcers These symptoms may come and go within two to four weeks. This stage is called acute HIV infection. If the infection is not treated, it becomes chronic HIV infection. Often, there are no symptoms during this stage. If it is not treated, eventually the virus will weaken your body's immune system. Then the infection will progress to AIDS. This is the late stage of HIV infection. With AIDS, your immune system is badly damaged. You can get more and more severe infections. These are known as opportunistic infections (OIs). Some people may not feel sick during the earlier stages of HIV infection. So the only way to know for sure whether you have HIV is to get tested. How do I know if I have HIV? A blood test can tell if you have HIV infection. Your health care provider can do the test, or you can use a home testing kit. You can also use the CDC Testing Locator to find free testing sites. What are the treatments for HIV/AIDS? There is no cure for HIV infection, but it can be treated with medicines . This is called antiretroviral therapy (ART). ART can make HIV infection a manageable chronic condition. It also reduces the risk of spreading the virus to others. Most people with HIV live long and healthy lives if they get and stay on ART. It's also important to take care of yourself. Making sure that you have the support you need, living a healthy lifestyle, and getting regular medical care can help you enjoy a better quality of life . Can HIV/AIDS be prevented? You can reduce the risk of spreading HIV by Getting tested for HIV Choosing less risky sexual behaviors. This includes limiting the number of sexual partners you have and using latex condoms every time you have sex. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. Getting tested and treated for sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) Not injecting drugs Talking to your health care provider about medicines to prevent HIV : PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) is for people who don't already have HIV but are at very high risk of getting it. PrEP is daily medicine that can reduce this risk. PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) is for people who have possibly been exposed to HIV. It is only for emergency situations. PEP must be started within 72 hours after a possible exposure to HIV. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
HIV/AIDS and Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsandinfections.html,Having HIV/AIDS weakens your body's immune system. This can lead to serious infections that are called opportunistic infections (OIs). Read more.," Having HIV/AIDS weakens your body's immune system. It destroys the white blood cells that fight infection. This puts you at risk for opportunistic infections (OIs). OIs are serious infections that take advantage of your weak immune system. These infections are less common and less severe in healthy people. There are many types of OIs: Bacterial infections, including tuberculosis and a serious related disease, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) Viral infections, such as cytomegalovirus (CMV) and hepatitis C Fungal infections, like yeast infections , cryptococcal meningitis, pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) and histoplasmosis Parasitic infections, such as crypto ( cryptosporidiosis ) and toxo ( toxoplasmosis ) Having HIV/AIDS can make infections harder to treat. People with HIV/AIDS are also more likely to have complications from common illnesses such as the flu. You can help prevent infections by taking your HIV/AIDS medicines . Other things that can help include practicing safe sex, washing your hands well and often, and cooking your food thoroughly."
HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsandpregnancy.html,HIV positive and pregnant or thinking about HIV and pregnancy? Learn how to protect your own health and lower your risk of passing HIV to your baby. ," If I have HIV, can I pass it on to my baby during pregnancy? If you are pregnant and have HIV/AIDS ,there is a risk of passing HIV to your baby. It can happen in three ways: During pregnancy During childbirth, especially if it is vaginal childbirth. In some cases, your doctor may suggest doing a Cesarean section to lower the risk during childbirth. During breastfeeding How can I prevent giving HIV to my baby? You can greatly lower that risk by taking HIV/AIDS medicines . These medicines will also help protect your health. Most HIV medicines are safe to use during pregnancy. They don't usually raise the risk of birth defects . But it is important to talk with your health care provider about the risks and benefits of the different medicines. Together you can decide which medicines are right for you. Then you need to make sure you take your medicines regularly. Your baby will get HIV/AIDS medicines as soon as possible after birth. The medicines protect your baby from infection from any HIV that passed from you during childbirth. Which medicine your baby gets depends on several factors. These include how much of the virus that is in your blood (called viral load). Your baby will need to take medicines for 4 to 6 weeks. He or she will get several tests to check for HIV over the first few months. Breast milk can have HIV in it. In the United States, infant formula is safe and readily available. So the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend that women in the United States who have HIV use formula instead of breastfeeding their babies. What if I want to get pregnant and my partner has HIV? If you are trying to get pregnant and your partner does not know whether he has HIV, he should get tested. If your partner does have HIV and you do not, talk to your doctor about taking PrEP . PrEP stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis.This means taking medicines to prevent HIV. The PrEP helps to protect both you and your baby from HIV."
HIV/AIDS in Women,https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsinwomen.html,"Women who get HIV/AIDS have unique problems and symptoms, including repeated vaginal yeast infections and higher risk of cervical cancer. Learn more. "," What are HIV and AIDS? HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by destroying the white blood cells that fight infection. AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final stage of infection with HIV. Not everyone with HIV develops AIDS. How does HIV spread? HIV can spread in different ways: Through unprotected sex with a person who has HIV. This is the most common way it spreads. Women may be at greater risk of being infected with HIV during sexual contact than men are. For example, vaginal tissue is fragile and can tear during sex. This can let HIV enter the body. Also, the vagina has a large surface area that can be exposed to the virus. By sharing drug needles Through contact with the blood of a person who has HIV From mother to baby during pregnancy , childbirth, or breastfeeding How does HIV/AIDS affect women differently from men? About one in four people in the United States who have HIV are women. Women who have HIV/AIDS have some different problems from men: Complications such as Repeated vaginal yeast infections Severe pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) A higher risk of cervical cancer Menstrual cycle problems A higher risk of osteoporosis Entering menopause younger or having more severe hot flashes Different, sometimes more severe, side effects from the medicines that treat HIV/AIDS Drug interactions between some HIV/AIDS medicines and hormonal birth control The risk of giving HIV to their baby while pregnancy or during childbirth Are there treatments for HIV/AIDS? There is no cure, but there are many medicines to treat both HIV infection and the infections and cancers that come with it. People who get early treatment can live longer and healthier lives ."
HIV/AIDS Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsmedicines.html,"There are five types of HIV/AID medications or treatment. They do not cure HIV/AIDS, but fight the infection. Discover more about these medications."," What is HIV/AIDS? HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by destroying CD4 cells. These are a type of white blood cells that fight infection. The loss of these cells makes it hard for your body to fight off infections and certain HIV-related cancers. Without treatment, HIV can gradually destroy the immune system and advance to AIDS. AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final stage of infection with HIV. Not everyone with HIV develops AIDS. What is antiretroviral therapy (ART)? The treatment of HIV/AIDS with medicines is called antiretroviral therapy (ART). It is recommended for everyone who has HIV. The medicines do not cure HIV infection, but they do make it a manageable chronic condition. They also reduce the risk of spreading the virus to others. How do HIV/AIDS medicines work? HIV/AIDS medicines reduce the amount of HIV (viral load) in your body, which helps by Giving your immune system a chance to recover. Even though there is still some HIV in your body, your immune system should be strong enough to fight off infections and certain HIV-related cancers. Reducing the risk that you will spread HIV to others What are the types of HIV/AIDS medicines? There are several different types of HIV/AIDS medicines. Some work by blocking or changing enzymes that HIV needs to make copies of itself. This prevents HIV from copying itself, which reduces the amount of HIV in the body. Several medicines do this: Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) block an enzyme called reverse transcriptase Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) bind to and later change reverse transcriptase Integrase inhibitors block an enzyme called integrase Protease inhibitors (PIs) block an enzyme called protease Some HIV/AIDS medicines interfere with HIV's ability to infect CD4 immune system cells: Fusion inhibitors block HIV from entering the cells CCR5 antagonists and post-attachment inhibitors block different molecules on the CD4 cells. To infect a cell, HIV has to bind to two types of molecules on the cell's surface. Blocking either of these molecules prevents HIV from entering the cells. Attachment inhibitors bind to a specific protein on the outer surface of HIV. This prevents HIV from entering the cell. In some cases, people take more than one medicine: Pharmacokinetic enhancers boost the effectiveness of certain HIV/AIDS medicines. A pharmacokinetic enhancer slows the breakdown of the other medicine. This allows that medicine to stay in the body longer at a higher concentration. Multidrug combinations include a combination of two or more different HIV/AIDS medicines When do I need to start taking HIV/AIDS medicines? It's important to start taking HIV/AIDS medicines as soon as possible after your diagnosis, especially if you Are pregnant Have AIDS Have certain HIV-related illnesses and infections Have an early HIV infection (the first 6 months after infection with HIV) What else do I need to know about taking HIV/AIDS medicines? It's important to take your medicines every day, according to the instructions from your health care provider. If you miss doses or don't follow a regular schedule, your treatment may not work, and the HIV virus may become resistant to the medicines. HIV medicines can cause side effects. Most of these side effects are manageable, but a few can be serious. Tell your health care provider about any side effects that you are having. Don't stop taking your medicine without first talking to your provider. He or she may give you tips on how to deal with the side effects. In some cases, your provider may decide to change your medicines. What are HIV PrEP and PEP medicines? HIV medicines are not just used for treatment. Some people take them to prevent HIV . PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) is for people who don't already have HIV but are at very high risk of getting it. PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) is for people who have possibly been exposed to HIV. NIH: Office of AIDS Research"
HIV: PrEP and PEP,https://medlineplus.gov/hivprepandpep.html,PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) and PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) are HIV prevention methods where medicines are prescribed before (pre) or post (after) there is exposure to HIV. Discover more about treatment as prevention.," What are PrEP and PEP? PrEP and PEP are medicines to prevent HIV . Each type is used in a different situation: PrEP stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis. It is for people who don't already have HIV but are at very high risk of getting it. PrEP is daily medicine that can reduce this risk. With PrEP, if you do get exposed to HIV, the medicine can stop HIV from taking hold and spreading throughout your body. PEP stands for post-exposure prophylaxis. PEP is for people who have possibly been exposed to HIV. It is only for emergency situations. PEP must be started within 72 hours after a possible exposure to HIV. PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) Who should consider taking PrEP? PrEP is for people without HIV who are at very high risk for getting it. This includes: Gay/bisexual men who Have an HIV-positive partner Have multiple partners, a partner with multiple partners, or a partner whose HIV status is unknown and Have anal sex without a condom OR Have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease (STD) in the last 6 months Heterosexual men and women who Have an HIV-positive partner Have multiple partners, a partner with multiple partners, or a partner whose HIV status is unknown and Don't always use a condom when having sex with people who inject drugs OR Don't always use a condom when having sex with bisexual men People who inject drugs and Share needles or other equipment to inject drugs OR Are at risk for getting HIV from sex If you have a partner who is HIV-positive and are considering getting pregnant, talk to your health care provider about PrEP. Taking it may help protect you and your baby from getting HIV infection while you try to get pregnant, during pregnancy , or while breastfeeding. How well does PrEP work? PrEP is very effective when you take it every day. It reduces the risk of getting HIV from sex by more than 90%. In people who inject drugs, it reduces the risk of HIV by more than 70%. PrEP is much less effective if you do not take it consistently. PrEP does not protect against other STDs, so you should still use latex condoms every time you have sex. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. You must have an HIV test every 3 months while taking PrEP, so you'll have regular follow-up visits with your health care provider. If you are having trouble taking PrEP every day or if you want to stop taking PrEP, talk to your health care provider. Does PrEP cause side effects? Some people taking PrEP may have side effects, like nausea. The side effects are usually not serious and often get better over time. If you are taking PrEP, tell your health care provider if you have a side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) Who should consider taking PEP? If you are HIV-negative and you think you may have been recently exposed to HIV, contact your health care provider immediately or go to an emergency room right away. You may be prescribed PEP if you are HIV negative or don't know your HIV status, and in the last 72 hours you Think you may have been exposed to HIV during sex, Shared needles or drug preparation equipment, OR Were sexually assaulted Your health care provider or emergency room doctor will help to decide whether PEP is right for you. PEP may also be given to a health care worker after a possible exposure to HIV at work, for example, from a needlestick injury. When should I start PEP and how long do I need to take it? PEP must be started within 72 hours (3 days) after a possible exposure to HIV. The sooner you start it, the better; every hour counts. You need to take the PEP medicines every day for 28 days. You will have to see your health care provider at certain times during and after taking the PEP, so you can have an HIV screening test and other testing. Does PEP cause side effects? Some people taking PEP may have side effects, like nausea. The side effects are usually not serious and often get better over time. If you are taking PEP, tell your health care provider if you have a side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. PEP medicines may also interact with other medicines that a person is taking (called a drug interaction ). So it's important to tell your health care provider about any other medicines that you take. Can I take PEP every time I have unprotected sex? PEP is only for emergency situations. It is not the right choice for people who may be exposed to HIV frequently - for example, if you often have sex without a condom with a partner who is HIV-positive. In that case, you should talk to your health care provider about whether PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) would be right for you."
Hives,https://medlineplus.gov/hives.html,Hives is a skin rash that can cause the skin to be red and have itchy bumps. Learn possible reasons to have rashes and treatments.," Hives are red and sometimes itchy bumps on your skin. An allergic reaction to a drug or food usually causes them. Allergic reactions cause your body to release chemicals that can make your skin swell up in hives. People who have other allergies are more likely to get hives than other people. Other causes include infections and stress. Hives are very common. They usually go away on their own, but if you have a serious case, you might need medicine or a shot. In rare cases, hives can cause a dangerous swelling in your airways, making it hard to breathe - which is a medical emergency."
Hodgkin Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/hodgkindisease.html,"Hodgkin disease is a type of lymphoma, cancer of the lymph system. It is a rare; but serious condition. Can cause swelling in neck, armpits or groin."," Hodgkin disease is a type of lymphoma. Lymphoma is a cancer of a part of the immune system called the lymph system. The first sign of Hodgkin disease is often an enlarged lymph node. The disease can spread to nearby lymph nodes. Later it may spread to the lungs, liver, or bone marrow. The exact cause is unknown. Hodgkin disease is rare. Symptoms include Painless swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, armpits, or groin Fever and chills Night sweats Weight loss Loss of appetite Itchy skin To diagnose Hodgkin disease, doctors use a physical exam and history, blood tests, and a biopsy. Treatment depends on how far the disease has spread. It often includes radiation therapy or chemotherapy. The earlier the disease is diagnosed, the more effective the treatment. In most cases, Hodgkin disease can be cured. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Home Care Services,https://medlineplus.gov/homecareservices.html,Home care is care that allows a person with special needs stay in their home. Learn about related issues and specifics.," Home care is care that allows a person with special needs to stay in their home. It might be for people who are getting older (aging in place). It could also be for people who are chronically ill, recovering from surgery, or disabled. Home care services include Personal care, such as help with bathing, washing your hair, or getting dressed Household chores, such as cleaning, yard work, and laundry Cooking for you in your home or delivering meals to you Money management, such as help filling out forms and making sure that your bills are paid on time Health care, such as having a home health aide come to your home or getting care from your provider through telehealth You can get almost any type of help you want in your home. You have to pay for many of them. But some types of care and community services are free or donated. Sometimes government programs or your health insurance will help cover the cost of certain home care services. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Homeless Health Concerns,https://medlineplus.gov/homelesshealthconcerns.html,Homelessness and health are closely connected. Limited access to healthcare can contribute to the problem. Learn about news and specific resources.," What are the causes of homelessness? Each night, hundreds of thousands of people are homeless in the United States. Some of these people are chronically homeless, while others have temporarily lost their shelter. The reasons why they are homelessness are complex. They can include a combination of factors such as Poverty Unemployment Lack of affordable housing Mental and substance use disorders Trauma and violence Domestic violence Justice-system involvement Sudden serious illness Divorce Death of a partner or parent Disabilities What is the link between homelessness and health? Poor health can contribute to homelessness. And being homeless can contribute to poor health. Many of the problems that homeless people face can make their health worse, including Limited access to health care Problems getting enough food Trouble staying safe Violence Stress Unsanitary living conditions Exposure to severe weather What are some of the common health problems that homeless people have? Some of the common health problems that homeless people may have include HIV/AIDS Lung diseases , including bronchitis , tuberculosis , and pneumonia Malnutrition Mental health problems Substance use problems Wounds and skin infections Many homeless people are dealing with trauma. They may have been abused or assaulted. This includes homeless children, who are at risk for emotional and behavioral problems . Contact your local homelessness assistance agency to get the help you need, such as access to shelters, health centers, and free meals."
Hormone Replacement Therapy,https://medlineplus.gov/hormonereplacementtherapy.html,Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) can relieve menopause symptoms. Risks include breast cancer and stroke. Certain types of HRT have a higher risk. ," Menopause is the time in a woman's life when her period stops. It is a normal part of aging. In the years before and during menopause, the levels of female hormones can go up and down. This can cause symptoms such as hot flashes, night sweats, pain during sex, and vaginal dryness. For some women, the symptoms are mild, and they go away on their own. Other women take hormone replacement therapy (HRT), also called menopausal hormone therapy, to relieve these symptoms. HRT may also protect against osteoporosis . HRT is not for everyone. You should not use HRT if you Think that you are pregnant Have problems with vaginal bleeding Have had certain kinds of cancers Have had a stroke or heart attack Have had blood clots Have liver disease There are different types of HRT. Some have only one hormone, while others have two. Most are pills that you take every day, but there are also skin patches, vaginal creams, gels, and rings. Taking HRT has some risks. For some women, hormone therapy may increase their chances of getting blood clots , heart attacks , strokes , breast cancer , and gallbladder disease . Certain types of HRT have a higher risk, and each woman's own risks can vary, depending upon her medical history and lifestyle. You and your health care provider need to discuss the risks and benefits for you. If you do decide to take HRT, it should be the lowest dose that helps and for the shortest time needed. You should check if you still need to take HRT every 3-6 months. Food and Drug Administration"
Hormones,https://medlineplus.gov/hormones.html,Hormones are your body's chemical messengers. They affect many processes including mood. Too much or too little of a certain hormone can be serious.," Hormones are your body's chemical messengers. They travel in your bloodstream to tissues or organs. They work slowly, over time, and affect many different processes, including Growth and development Metabolism - how your body gets energy from the foods you eat Sexual function Reproduction Mood Endocrine glands, which are special groups of cells, make hormones. The major endocrine glands are the pituitary, pineal, thymus, thyroid, adrenal glands, and pancreas. In addition, men produce hormones in their testes and women produce them in their ovaries. Hormones are powerful. It takes only a tiny amount to cause big changes in cells or even your whole body. That is why too much or too little of a certain hormone can be serious. Laboratory tests can measure the hormone levels in your blood, urine, or saliva. Your health care provider may perform these tests if you have symptoms of a hormone disorder . Home pregnancy tests are similar - they test for pregnancy hormones in your urine."
Hospice Care,https://medlineplus.gov/hospicecare.html,"Hospice care is end-of-life care. Medical professionals and volunteers give medical, psychological, and spiritual support. Read more."," Hospice care is end-of-life care. A team of health care professionals and volunteers provides it. They give medical, psychological, and spiritual support. The goal of the care is to help people who are dying have peace, comfort, and dignity. The caregivers try to control pain and other symptoms so a person can remain as alert and comfortable as possible. Hospice programs also provide services to support a patient's family. Usually, a hospice patient is expected to live 6 months or less. Hospice care can take place At home At a hospice center In a hospital In a skilled nursing facility NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Household Products,https://medlineplus.gov/householdproducts.html,Household products for cleaning and other uses can contain ingredients that can harm your family and the environment. Learn more.," The products you use for cleaning, carpentry, auto repair, gardening, and many other household uses can contain ingredients that can harm you, your family, and the environment. These include Oven and drain cleaners Cleaning and disinfecting products , including bleach and antibacterial cleaners Laundry powder Floor polish Paint thinners, strippers, and removers Pesticides Grease and rust removers Motor oil and fuel additives Arts and craft supplies Toxic substances in these products can cause harm if inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through the skin. People respond to toxic substances in different ways. At high doses, a toxic substance might cause birth defects or other serious problems, including brain damage or death. To avoid problems, keep products in the containers they come in and use them exactly as the label says. Follow label directions or get medical help if you swallow or inhale them or get them on your skin. Environmental Protection Agency"
How Much Exercise Do I Need?,https://medlineplus.gov/howmuchexercisedoineed.html,"You know that exercise is good for your health, but how much do you need? Learn what's recommended, along with which types of exercise you need."," Regular exercise is one of the best things you can do for your health. It has many benefits . It can improve your overall health and fitness and reduce your risk for many chronic diseases.To get the most benefit, here's how much physical activity you should get: For adults: Get at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity each week. Or you could do a combination of the two. Try to spread your physical activity out over several days of the week. That's better than trying to do it all in one or two days. Some days you may not have long blocks of time to do physical activity. You can try splitting it up into segments of ten minutes or more. Aerobic activities include walking fast, jogging, swimming, and biking Moderate intensity means that while you are doing that activity, you should be able to say a few words in a row but not sing Vigorous intensity means that while you are doing that activity, you won't be able to say more than a few words without stopping for a breath Also, do strengthening activities twice per week. Strengthening activities include lifting weights, working with exercise bands, and doing sit-ups and pushups Choose activities that work all the different parts of the body - your legs, hips, back, chest, stomach, shoulders, and arms. You should repeat exercises for each muscle group 8 to 12 times per session. For preschool-aged children (ages 3-5): Preschool children should be physically active throughout the day, to help with their growth and development. They should get both structured and unstructured active play. Structured play has a goal and is directed by an adult. Examples include playing a sport or a game. Unstructured play is creative free play, such as playing on a playground. For children and teens: Get 60 minutes or more of physical activity every day. Most of it should be moderate-intensity aerobic activity. Activities should vary and be a good fit for the child's age and physical development Moderate-intensity aerobic activities include walking, running, skipping, playing on the playground, playing basketball, and biking Also, try to get each of these at least 3 days a week: vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, muscle-strengthening activity, and bone-strengthening activity. Vigorous-intensity aerobic activities include running, doing jumping jacks, and fast swimming Muscle-strengthening activities include playing on playground equipment, playing tug-of-war, and doing pushups and pull-ups Bone-strengthening activities include hopping, skipping, doing jumping jacks, playing volleyball, and working with resistance bands For older adults, pregnant women, and people with chronic health problems: Older adults , pregnant women, and people who have special health needs should check with their health care provider on how much physical activity they should get and what types of activities they should do. Exercise tips: People who are trying to lose weight may need to get more physical activity. They also need to adjust their diet, so they are burning more calories than they eat and drink. If you have been inactive, you may need to start slowly. You can keep adding more gradually. The more you can do, the better. But try not to feel overwhelmed, and do what you can. Getting some physical activity is always better than getting none. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
How to Improve Mental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/howtoimprovementalhealth.html,"There are many different things you can do to improve your mental health, including staying positive, connecting with others, and relaxation techniques. Discover what you can do to improve your mental health."," What is mental health? Mental health includes our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel, and act as we cope with life. It also helps determine how we handle stress , relate to others, and make choices. Mental health is important at every stage of life, from childhood and adolescence through adulthood and aging . Why is mental health important? Mental health is important because it can help you to Cope with the stresses of life Be physically healthy Have good relationships Make meaningful contributions to your community Work productively Realize your full potential How can I improve my mental health? There are many different things you can do to improve your mental health, including Staying positive. It's important to try to have a positive outlook; some ways to do that include Finding balance between positive and negative emotions. Staying positive doesn't mean that you never feel negative emotions, such as sadness or anger. You need to feel them so that you can move through difficult situations. They can help you to respond to a problem. But you don't want those emotions to take over. For example, it's not helpful to keep thinking about bad things that happened in the past or worry too much about the future. Trying to hold on to the positive emotions when you have them Taking a break from negative information. Know when to stop watching or reading the news. Use social media to reach out for support and feel connected to others but be careful. Don't fall for rumors, get into arguments, or negatively compare your life to others. Practicing gratitude , which means being thankful for the good things in your life. It's helpful to do this every day, either by thinking about what you are grateful for or writing it down in a journal. These can be big things, such as the support you have from loved ones, or little things, such as enjoying a nice meal. It's important to allow yourself a moment to enjoy that you had the positive experience. Practicing gratitude can help you to see your life differently. For example, when you are stressed, you may not notice that there are also moments when you have some positive emotions. Gratitude can help you to recognize them. Taking care of your physical health , since your physical and mental health are connected. Some ways to take care of your physical health include Being physically active . Exercise can reduce feelings of stress and depression and improve your mood. Getting enough sleep . Sleep affects your mood. If you don't get a good sleep, you may become more easily annoyed and angry. Over the long term, a lack of quality sleep can make you more likely to become depressed. So it's important to make sure that you have a regular sleep schedule and get enough quality sleep every night. Healthy eating . Good nutrition will help you feel better physically but could also improve your mood and decrease anxiety and stress. Also, not having enough of certain nutrients may contribute to some mental illnesses. For example, there may be a link between low levels of vitamin B12 and depression. Eating a well-balanced diet can help you to get enough of the nutrients you need. Connecting with others. Humans are social creatures, and it's important to have strong, healthy relationships with others. Having good social support may help protect you against the harms of stress. It is also good to have different types of connections. Besides connecting with family and friends, you could find ways to get involved with your community or neighborhood. For example, you could volunteer for a local organization or join a group that is focused on a hobby you enjoy. Developing a sense of meaning and purpose in life. This could be through your job, volunteering, learning new skills, or exploring your spirituality. Developing coping skills , which are methods you use to deal with stressful situations. They may help you face a problem, take action, be flexible, and not easily give up in solving it. Meditation , which is a mind and body practice where you learn to focus your attention and awareness. There are many types, including mindfulness meditation and transcendental meditation. Meditation usually involves A quiet location with as few distractions as possible A specific, comfortable posture. This could be sitting, lying down, walking, or another position. A focus of attention, such as a specially chosen word or set of words, an object, or your breathing An open attitude, where you try to let distractions come and go naturally without judging them Relaxation techniques are practices you do to produce your body's natural relaxation response. This slows down your breathing, lowers your blood pressure, and reduces muscle tension and stress. Types of relaxation techniques include Progressive relaxation, where you tighten and relax different muscle groups, sometimes while using mental imagery or breathing exercises Guided imagery, where you learn to focus on positive images in your mind, to help you feel more relaxed and focused Biofeedback, where you use electronic devices to learn to control certain body functions, such as breathing, heart rate, and muscle tension Self-hypnosis, where the goal is to get yourself into a relaxed, trance-like state when you hear a certain suggestion or see a specific cue Deep breathing exercises, which involve focusing on taking slow, deep, even breaths It's also important to recognize when you need to get help. Talk therapy and/or medicines can treat mental disorders . If you don't know where to get treatment, start by contacting your primary care provider."
How to Lower Cholesterol,https://medlineplus.gov/howtolowercholesterol.html,"Do you have high cholesterol? Learn how you can lower your cholesterol, through diet, exercise, weight management, and if you need them, medicines."," What is cholesterol? Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even block them. This puts you at risk for coronary artery disease and other heart diseases . Cholesterol travels through the blood on proteins called lipoproteins. One type, LDL , is sometimes called the ""bad"" cholesterol. A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Another type, HDL , is sometimes called the ""good"" cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your body. There are steps that you can take to lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol and raise your HDL (good) cholesterol. By keeping your cholesterol levels in range , you can lower your risk of heart diseases. What are the treatments for high cholesterol? The main treatments for high cholesterol are lifestyle changes and medicines. Lifestyle changes to lower cholesterol Heart-healthy lifestyle changes that can help you lower or control your cholesterol include Heart-healthy eating. A heart-healthy eating plan limits the amount of saturated and trans fats that you eat. It recommends that you eat and drink only enough calories to stay at a healthy weight and avoid weight gain . It encourages you to choose a variety of nutritious foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats. Examples of eating plans that can lower your cholesterol include the Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet and the DASH eating plan . Weight Management. If you are overweight, losing weight can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol. This is especially important for people with metabolic syndrome . Metabolic syndrome is a group of risk factors that includes high triglyceride levels, low HDL (good) cholesterol levels, and being overweight with a large waist measurement (more than 40 inches for men and more than 35 inches for women). Physical Activity. Everyone should get regular physical activity (30 minutes on most, if not all, days). Managing stress. Research has shown that chronic stress can sometimes raise your LDL cholesterol and lower your HDL cholesterol. Quitting smoking. Quitting smoking can raise your HDL cholesterol. Since HDL helps to remove LDL cholesterol from your arteries, having more HDL can help to lower your LDL cholesterol. Medicines to lower cholesterol For some people, making lifestyle changes alone does not their lower cholesterol enough. They may also need to take medicines. There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available. They work in different ways and can have different side effects. Talk to your health care provider about which medicine is right for you. Even if you take medicines to lower your cholesterol, you still need to continue with lifestyle changes. Lipoprotein apheresis to lower cholesterol Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an inherited form of high cholesterol. Some people who have FH may get a treatment called lipoprotein apheresis. This treatment uses a filtering machine to remove LDL cholesterol from the blood. Then the machine returns the rest of the blood back to the person. Supplements to lower cholesterol Some companies sell supplements that they say can lower cholesterol. Researchers have studied many of these supplements, including red yeast rice, flaxseed, and garlic. At this time, there isn't conclusive evidence that any of them are effective in lowering cholesterol levels. Also, supplements may cause side effects and interactions with medicines. Always check with your health care provider before you take any supplements."
How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet,https://medlineplus.gov/howtolowercholesterolwithdiet.html,"One important way to lower your cholesterol is through diet. Learn which foods to avoid, which ones you should limit, and what you can eat instead."," What is cholesterol? Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even block them. This puts you at risk for coronary artery disease and other heart diseases . Cholesterol travels through the blood on proteins called lipoproteins. One type, LDL , is sometimes called the ""bad"" cholesterol. A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Another type, HDL , is sometimes called the ""good"" cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your body. What are the treatments for high cholesterol? The treatments for high cholesterol are heart-healthy lifestyle changes and medicines . The lifestyle changes include healthy eating, weight management, and regular physical activity. How can I lower cholesterol with diet? Heart-healthy lifestyle changes include a diet to lower your cholesterol. The DASH eating plan is one example. Another is the Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet, which recommends that you Choose healthier fats. You should limit both total fat and saturated fat. No more than 25 to 35% of your daily calories should come from dietary fats , and less than 7% of your daily calories should come from saturated fat. Depending upon how many calories you eat per day, here are the maximum amounts of fats that you should eat: Calories per Day Total Fat Saturated Fat 1,500 42-58 grams 10 grams 2,000 56-78 grams 13 grams 2,500 69-97 grams 17 grams Saturated fat is a bad fat because it raises your LDL (bad cholesterol) level more than anything else in your diet. It is found in some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods. Trans fat is another bad fat; it can raise your LDL and lower you HDL (good cholesterol). Trans fat is mostly in foods made with hydrogenated oils and fats, such as stick margarine, crackers, and french fries. Instead of these bad fats, try healthier fats, such as lean meat, nuts, and unsaturated oils like canola, olive, and safflower oils. Limit foods with cholesterol. If you are trying to lower your cholesterol, you should have less than 200 mg a day of cholesterol. Cholesterol is in foods of animal origin, such as liver and other organ meats, egg yolks, shrimp, and whole milk dairy products. Eat plenty of soluble fiber. Foods high in soluble fiber help prevent your digestive tract from absorbing cholesterol. These foods include Whole-grain cereals such as oatmeal and oat bran Fruits such as apples, bananas, oranges, pears, and prunes Legumes such as kidney beans, lentils, chick peas, black-eyed peas, and lima beans Eat lots of fruits and vegetables. A diet rich in fruits and vegetables can increase important cholesterol-lowering compounds in your diet. These compounds, called plant stanols or sterols, work like soluble fiber. Eat fish that are high in omega-3 fatty acids. These acids won't lower your LDL level, but they may help raise your HDL level. They may also protect your heart from blood clots and inflammation and reduce your risk of heart attack. Fish that are a good source of omega-3 fatty acids include salmon, tuna (canned or fresh), and mackerel. Try to eat these fish two times a week. Limit salt. You should try to limit the amount of sodium (salt) that you eat to no more than 2,300 milligrams (about 1 teaspoon of salt) a day. That includes all the sodium you eat, whether it was added in cooking or at the table, or already present in food products. Limiting salt won't lower your cholesterol, but it can lower your risk of heart diseases by helping to lower your blood pressure . You can reduce your sodium by instead choosing low-salt and ""no added salt"" foods and seasonings at the table or while cooking. Limit alcohol. Alcohol adds extra calories, which can lead to weight gain. Being overweight can raise your LDL level and lower your HDL level. Too much alcohol can also increase your risk of heart diseases because it can raise your blood pressure and triglyceride level. One drink is a glass of wine, beer, or a small amount of hard liquor, and the recommendation is that Men should have no more than two drinks containing alcohol a day Women should have no more than one drink containing alcohol a day Nutrition labels can help you figure out how much fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, fiber, and sodium is in the foods that you buy. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
How to Prevent Diabetes,https://medlineplus.gov/howtopreventdiabetes.html,"Many Americans have type 2 diabetes. Find out if you are at risk, and learn how lifestyle changes may prevent or delay you from getting diabetes."," What is type 2 diabetes? If you have diabetes, your blood sugar levels are too high. With type 2 diabetes , this happens because your body does not make enough insulin, or it does not use insulin well (this is called insulin resistance). If you are at risk for type 2 diabetes, you might be able to prevent or delay developing it. Who is at risk for type 2 diabetes? Many Americans are at risk for type 2 diabetes. Your chances of getting it depend on a combination of risk factors such as your genes and lifestyle. The risk factors include Having prediabetes , which means you have blood sugar levels that are higher than normal but not high enough to be called diabetes Being overweight or having obesity Being age 45 or older A family history of diabetes Being African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander Having high blood pressure Having a low level of HDL (good) cholesterol or a high level of triglycerides A history of diabetes in pregnancy Having given birth to a baby weighing 9 pounds or more An inactive lifestyle A history of heart disease or stroke Having depression Having polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) Having acanthosis nigricans, a skin condition in which your skin becomes dark and thick, especially around your neck or armpits Smoking How can I prevent or delay getting type 2 diabetes? If you are at risk for diabetes, you may be able to prevent or delay getting it. Most of the things that you need to do involve having a healthier lifestyle. So if you make these changes, you will get other health benefits as well. You may lower your risk of other diseases, and you will probably feel better and have more energy. The changes are Losing weight and keeping it off. Weight control is an important part of diabetes prevention. You may be able to prevent or delay diabetes by losing 5 to 10% of your current weight. For example, if you weigh 200 pounds, your goal would be to lose between 10 to 20 pounds. And once you lose the weight, it is important that you don't gain it back. Following a healthy eating plan. It is important to reduce the amount of calories you eat and drink each day, so you can lose weight and keep it off. To do that, your diet should include smaller portions and less fat and sugar. You should also eat a variety of foods from each food group, including plenty of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. It's also a good idea to limit red meat, and avoid processed meats. Get regular exercise. Exercise has many health benefits , including helping you to lose weight and lower your blood sugar levels. These both lower your risk of type 2 diabetes. Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity 5 days a week. If you have not been active, talk with your health care professional to figure out which types of exercise are best for you. You can start slowly and work up to your goal. Don't smoke. Smoking can contribute to insulin resistance, which can lead to type 2 diabetes. If you already smoke, try to quit . Talk to your health care provider to see whether there is anything else you can do to delay or to prevent type 2 diabetes. If you are at high risk, your provider may suggest that you take one of a few types of diabetes medicines . NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
How to Prevent Heart Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/howtopreventheartdisease.html,Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the U.S. and a major cause of disability. Learn how you can reduce your risks and prevent heart disease.," Heart disease is the leading cause of the death in the United States. It is also a major cause of disability. There are many things that can raise your risk for heart disease. They are called risk factors. Some of them you cannot control, but there are many that you can control. Learning about them can lower your risk of heart disease. What are the heart disease risk factors that I cannot change? Age. Your risk of heart disease increases as you get older. Men age 45 and older and women age 55 and older have a greater risk. Sex. Some risk factors may affect heart disease risk differently in women than in men. For example, estrogen provides women some protection against heart disease, but diabetes raises the risk of heart disease more in women than in men. Race or ethnicity. Certain groups have higher risks than others. African Americans are more likely than whites to have heart disease, while Hispanic Americans are less likely to have it. Some Asian groups, such as East Asians, have lower rates, but South Asians have higher rates. Family history. You have a greater risk if you have a close family member who had heart disease at an early age. What can I do to lower my risk of heart disease? Fortunately, there are many things you can do to reduce your chances of getting heart disease: Control your blood pressure. High blood pressure is a major risk factor for heart disease. It is important to get your blood pressure checked regularly - at least once a year for most adults, and more often if you have high blood pressure. Take steps, including lifestyle changes, to prevent or control high blood pressure. Keep your cholesterol and triglyceride levels under control. High levels of cholesterol can clog your arteries and raise your risk of coronary artery disease and heart attack. Lifestyle changes and medicines (if needed) can lower your cholesterol. Triglycerides are another type of fat in the blood. High levels of triglycerides may also raise the risk of coronary artery disease, especially in women. Stay at a healthy weight. Being overweight or having obesity can increase your risk for heart disease. This is mostly because they are linked to other heart disease risk factors, including high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, and diabetes. Controlling your weight can lower these risks. Eat a healthy diet. Try to limit saturated fats, foods high in sodium, and added sugars. Eat plenty of fresh fruit, vegetables, and whole grains. The DASH diet is an example of an eating plan that can help you to lower your blood pressure and cholesterol, two things that can lower your risk of heart disease. Get regular exercise. Exercise has many benefits, including strengthening your heart and improving your circulation. It can also help you maintain a healthy weight and lower cholesterol and blood pressure. All of these can lower your risk of heart disease. Limit alcohol. Drinking too much alcohol can raise your blood pressure. It also adds extra calories, which may cause weight gain. Both of those raise your risk of heart disease. Men should have no more than two alcoholic drinks per day, and women should not have more than one. Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking raises your blood pressure and puts you at higher risk for heart attack and stroke. If you do not smoke, do not start. If you do smoke, quitting will lower your risk for heart disease. You can talk with your health care provider for help in finding the best way for you to quit. Manage stress. Stress is linked to heart disease in many ways. It can raise your blood pressure. Extreme stress can be a ""trigger"" for a heart attack. Also, some common ways of coping with stress, such as overeating, heavy drinking, and smoking, are bad for your heart. Some ways to help manage your stress include exercise, listening to music, focusing on something calm or peaceful, and meditating. Manage diabetes. Having diabetes doubles your risk of diabetic heart disease . That is because over time, high blood sugar from diabetes can damage your blood vessels and the nerves that control your heart and blood vessels. So, it is important to get tested for diabetes, and if you have it, to keep it under control. Make sure that you get enough sleep. If you don't get enough sleep, you raise your risk of high blood pressure, obesity, and diabetes. Those three things can raise your risk for heart disease. Most adults need 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night. Make sure that you have good sleep habits . If you have frequent sleep problems, contact your health care provider. One problem, sleep apnea , causes people to briefly stop breathing many times during sleep. This interferes with your ability to get a good rest and can raise your risk of heart disease. If you think you might have it, ask your doctor about having a sleep study. And if you do have sleep apnea, make sure that you get treatment for it."
How to Prevent High Blood Pressure,https://medlineplus.gov/howtopreventhighbloodpressure.html,"Many people have high blood pressure, or are at risk for it. Learn how you may be able to prevent or treat it, with simple, healthy lifestyle changes."," More than 1 in 3 adults in the U.S. has high blood pressure , or hypertension. Many of those people don't know they have it, because there are usually no warning signs. This can be dangerous, because high blood pressure can lead to life-threatening conditions like heart attack or stroke . The good news is that you can often prevent or treat high blood pressure. Early diagnosis and heart-healthy lifestyle changes can keep high blood pressure from seriously damaging your health. What is blood pressure? Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your arteries. Each time your heart beats, it pumps blood into the arteries. Your blood pressure is highest when your heart beats, pumping the blood. This is called systolic pressure. When your heart is at rest, between beats, your blood pressure falls. This is called diastolic pressure. Your blood pressure reading uses these two numbers. Usually the systolic number comes before or above the diastolic number. For example, 120/80 means a systolic of 120 and a diastolic of 80. How is high blood pressure diagnosed? High blood pressure usually has no symptoms. So the only way to find out if you have it is to get regular blood pressure checks from your health care provider. Your provider will use a gauge, a stethoscope or electronic sensor, and a blood pressure cuff. He or she will take two or more readings at separate appointments before making a diagnosis. Blood Pressure Category Systolic Blood Pressure Diastolic Blood Pressure Normal Less than 120 and Less than 80 High Blood Pressure (no other heart risk factors) 140 or higher or 90 or higher High Blood Pressure (with other heart risk factors, according to some providers) 130 or higher or 80 or higher Dangerously high blood pressure - seek medical care right away 180 or higher and 120 or higher For children and teens, the health care provider compares the blood pressure reading to what is normal for other kids who are the same age, height, and gender. People with diabetes or chronic kidney disease should keep their blood pressure below 130/80. Who is at risk for high blood pressure? Anyone can develop high blood pressure, but there are certain factors that can increase your risk: Age - Blood pressure tends to rise with age Race/Ethnicity - High blood pressure is more common in African American adults Weight - People who are overweight or have obesity are more likely to develop high blood pressure Sex - Before age 55, men are more likely than women to develop high blood pressure. After age 55, women are more likely than men to develop it. Lifestyle - Certain lifestyle habits can raise your risk for high blood pressure, such as eating too much sodium (salt) or not enough potassium, lack of exercise, drinking too much alcohol, and smoking. Family history - A family history of high blood pressure raises the risk of developing high blood pressure How can I prevent high blood pressure? You can help prevent high blood pressure by having a healthy lifestyle. This means Eating a healthy diet. To help manage your blood pressure, you should limit the amount of sodium (salt) that you eat and increase the amount of potassium in your diet. It is also important to eat foods that are lower in fat, as well as plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. The DASH eating plan is an example of an eating plan that can help you to lower your blood pressure. Getting regular exercise. Exercise can help you maintain a healthy weight and lower your blood pressure. You should try to get moderate-intensity aerobic exercise at least 2 and a half hours per week, or vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise for 1 hour and 15 minutes per week. Aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, is any exercise in which your heart beats harder and you use more oxygen than usual. Being at a healthy weight. Being overweight or having obesity increases your risk for high blood pressure. Maintaining a healthy weight can help you control high blood pressure and reduce your risk for other health problems. Limiting alcohol. Drinking too much alcohol can raise your blood pressure. It also adds extra calories, which may cause weight gain. Men should have no more than two drinks per day, and women only one. Not smoking. Cigarette smoking raises your blood pressure and puts you at higher risk for heart attack and stroke. If you do not smoke, do not start. If you do smoke, talk to your health care provider for help in finding the best way for you to quit . Managing stress. Learning how to relax and manage stress can improve your emotional and physical health and lower high blood pressure. Stress management techniques include exercising, listening to music, focusing on something calm or peaceful, and meditating. If you already have high blood pressure, it is important to prevent it from getting worse or causing complications. You should get regular medical care and follow your prescribed treatment plan. Your plan will include healthy lifestyle habit recommendations and possibly medicines . NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
HPV,https://medlineplus.gov/hpv.html,Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is a common sexually transmitted infection. A pap smear can help detect changes in the cervix caused by HPV. Learn more.," What is HPV? Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a group of related viruses. They can cause warts on different parts of your body. There are more than 200 types. About 40 of them are spread through direct sexual contact with someone who has the virus. They can also spread through other intimate, skin-to-skin contact. Some of these types can cause cancer. There are two categories of sexually transmitted HPV. Low-risk HPV can cause warts on or around your genitals , anus, mouth, or throat. High-risk HPV can cause various cancers: Cervical cancer Anal cancer Some types of oral and throat cancer Vulvar cancer Vaginal cancer Penile cancer Most HPV infections go away on their own and don't cause cancer. But sometimes the infections last longer. When a high-risk HPV infection lasts for many years, it can lead to cell changes. If these changes are not treated, they may get worse over time and become cancer. Who is at risk for HPV infections? HPV infections are very common. Nearly all sexually active people are infected with HPV soon after they become sexually active. What are the symptoms of HPV infections? Some people develop warts from certain low-risk HPV infections, but the other types (including the high-risk types) have no symptoms. If a high-risk HPV infection lasts for many years and causes cell changes, you may have symptoms. You may also have symptoms if those cell changes develop into cancer. Which symptoms you have depends on which part of the body is affected. How are HPV infections diagnosed? Health care providers can usually diagnose warts by looking at them. For women, there are cervical cancer screening tests which can find changes in the cervix that might lead to cancer. As part of the screening, women may have Pap tests , HPV tests , or both. What are the treatments for HPV infections? An HPV infection itself cannot be treated. There are medicines that you can apply to a wart. If they don't work, your health care provide could freeze, burn, or surgically remove it. There are treatments for the cell changes caused by infection with high-risk HPV. They include medicines that you apply to the area that is affected and various surgical procedures. People who have HPV-related cancers usually get the same types of treatment as people who have cancers that are not caused by HPV. An exception to this is for people who have certain oral and throat cancers. They may have different treatment options. Can HPV infections be prevented? Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading HPV. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. Vaccines can protect against several types of HPV, including some that can cause cancer. The vaccines provide the most protection when people get them before they are exposed to the virus. This means that it is best for people to get them before they become sexually active. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Huntington's Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/huntingtonsdisease.html,Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited disease that causes nerve cells in the brain to waste away. It causes disability that gets worse over time.," Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited disease that causes certain nerve cells in the brain to waste away. People are born with the defective gene, but symptoms usually don't appear until middle age. Early symptoms of HD may include uncontrolled movements, clumsiness, and balance problems. Later, HD can take away the ability to walk, talk, and swallow. Some people stop recognizing family members. Others are aware of their environment and are able to express emotions. If one of your parents has Huntington's disease, you have a 50% chance of getting it. A blood test can tell you if have the HD gene and will develop the disease. Genetic counseling can help you weigh the risks and benefits of taking the test. There is no cure. Medicines can help manage some of the symptoms, but cannot slow down or stop the disease. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Hurricanes,https://medlineplus.gov/hurricanes.html,Hurricanes are severe tropical storms that produce heavy rains and wind that can exceed 155 miles per hour. Read more about the effects of them.," A hurricane is a severe type of tropical storm. Hurricanes produce high winds, heavy rains and thunderstorms. Hurricanes can cause tremendous damage. Winds can exceed 155 miles per hour. Hurricanes and tropical storms can also spawn tornadoes and lead to flooding . The high winds and heavy rains can destroy buildings, roads and bridges, and knock down power lines and trees. In coastal areas, very high tides called storm surges cause extensive damage. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a hurricane, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Hydrocephalus,https://medlineplus.gov/hydrocephalus.html,"Hydrocephalus is the buildup of too much cerebrospinal fluid in the brain. It can be present at birth, or happen later. Read about causes, treatment."," Hydrocephalus is the buildup of too much cerebrospinal fluid in the brain. Normally, this fluid cushions your brain. When you have too much, though, it puts harmful pressure on your brain. Hydrocephalus can be congenital, or present at birth. Causes include genetic problems and problems with how the fetus develops. An unusually large head is the main sign of congenital hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus can also happen after birth. This is called acquired hydrocephalus. It can occur at any age. Causes can include head injuries, strokes, infections, tumors, and bleeding in the brain. Symptoms include Headache Vomiting and nausea Blurry vision Balance problems Bladder control problems Thinking and memory problems Hydrocephalus can permanently damage the brain, causing problems with physical and mental development. If untreated, it is usually fatal. With treatment, many people lead normal lives with few limitations. Treatment usually involves surgery to insert a shunt. A shunt is a flexible but sturdy plastic tube. The shunt moves the cerebrospinal fluid to another area of the body where it can be absorbed. Medicine and rehabilitation therapy can also help. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Hyperglycemia,https://medlineplus.gov/hyperglycemia.html,Hyperglycemia means high blood sugar or glucose. Hyperglycemia happens when your body doesn't make enough insulin or can't use it the right way.," Hyperglycemia means high blood sugar or glucose. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that moves glucose into your cells to give them energy. Hyperglycemia happens when your body doesn't make enough insulin or can't use it the right way. People with diabetes can get hyperglycemia from not eating the right foods or not taking medicines correctly. Other problems that can raise blood sugar include infections, certain medicines, hormone imbalances, or severe illnesses."
Hyperthyroidism,https://medlineplus.gov/hyperthyroidism.html,Thyroid hormones control the rate of many activities in your body. Hyperthyroidism means the thyroid makes more thyroid hormones than the body needs.," What is hyperthyroidism? Hyperthyroidism, or overactive thyroid, happens when your thyroid gland makes more thyroid hormones than your body needs. Your thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck. It makes hormones that control the way the body uses energy. These hormones affect nearly every organ in your body and control many of your body's most important functions. For example, they affect your breathing, heart rate, weight, digestion, and moods. If not treated, hyperthyroidism can cause serious problems with your heart, bones, muscles, menstrual cycle, and fertility. But there are treatments that can help. What causes hyperthyroidism? Hyperthyroidism has several causes. They include Grave's disease, an autoimmune disorder in which your immune system attacks your thyroid and causes it to make too much hormone. This is the most common cause. Thyroid nodules, which are growths on your thyroid. They are usually benign (not cancer). But they may become overactive and make too much thyroid hormone. Thyroid nodules are more common in older adults. Thyroiditis, inflammation of the thyroid. It causes stored thyroid hormone to leak out of your thyroid gland. Too much iodine. Iodine is found in some medicines, cough syrups, seaweed and seaweed-based supplements. Taking too much of them can cause your thyroid to make too much thyroid hormone. Too much thyroid medicine. This can happen if people who take thyroid hormone medicine for hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) take too much of it. Who is at risk for hyperthyroidism? You are at higher risk for hyperthyroidism if you Are a woman Are older than age 60 Have been pregnant or had a baby within the past 6 months Have had thyroid surgery or a thyroid problem, such as goiter Have a family history of thyroid disease Have pernicious anemia , in which the body cannot make enough healthy red blood cells because it does not have enough vitamin B12 Have type 1 diabetes or primary adrenal insufficiency, a hormonal disorder Get too much iodine, from eating large amounts of foods containing iodine or using iodine-containing medicines or supplements What are the symptoms of hyperthyroidism? The symptoms of hyperthyroidism can vary from person to person and may include Nervousness or irritability Fatigue Muscle weakness Trouble tolerating heat Trouble sleeping Tremor , usually in your hands Rapid and irregular heartbeat Frequent bowel movements or diarrhea Weight loss Mood swings Goiter, an enlarged thyroid that may cause your neck to look swollen. Sometimes it can cause trouble with breathing or swallowing. Adults over age 60 may have different symptoms than younger adults. For example, they may lose their appetite or withdraw from other people. Sometimes this can be mistaken for depression or dementia . What other problems can hyperthyroidism cause? If hyperthyroidism isn't treated, it can cause some serious health problems, including An irregular heartbeat that can lead to blood clots , stroke , heart failure , and other heart problems An eye disease called Graves' ophthalmopathy. It can cause double vision, light sensitivity, and eye pain. In rare cases, it can lead to vision loss . Thinning bones and osteoporosis Fertility problems in women Complications in pregnancy, such as premature birth , low birth weight , high blood pressure in pregnancy , and miscarriage How is hyperthyroidism diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take your medical history, including asking about symptoms Will do a physical exam May do thyroid tests , such as TSH , T3 , T4 , and thyroid antibody blood tests Imaging tests , such as a thyroid scan, ultrasound , or radioactive iodine uptake test. A radioactive iodine uptake test measures how much radioactive iodine your thyroid takes up from your blood after you swallow a small amount of it. What are the treatments for hyperthyroidism? The treatments for hyperthyroidism include medicines, radioiodine therapy, and thyroid surgery: Medicines for hyperthyroidism include Antithyroid medicines, which cause your thyroid to make less thyroid hormone. You probably need to take the medicines for 1 to 2 years. In some cases, you might need to take the medicines for several years. This is the simplest treatment, but it is often not a permanent cure. Beta blocker medicines, which can reduce symptoms such as tremors, rapid heartbeat, and nervousness. They work quickly and can help you feel better until other treatments take effect. Radioiodine therapy is a common and effective treatment for hyperthyroidism. It involves taking radioactive iodine by mouth as a capsule or liquid. This slowly destroys the cells of the thyroid gland that produce thyroid hormone. It does not affect other body tissues. Almost everyone who has radioactive iodine treatment later develops hypothyroidism. This is because the thyroid hormone-producing cells have been destroyed. But hypothyroidism is easier to treat and causes fewer long-term health problems than hyperthyroidism. Surgery to remove part or most of the thyroid gland is done in rare cases. It might be an option for people with large goiters or pregnant women who cannot take antithyroid medicines. If you have all of your thyroid removed, you will need to take thyroid medicines for the rest of your life. Some people who have part of their thyroid removed also need to take medicines. If you have hyperthyroidism, it's important not to get too much iodine. Talk to your health care provider about which foods, supplements, and medicines you need to avoid. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hypoglycemia,https://medlineplus.gov/hypoglycemia.html,"Read about the causes and symptoms related to hypoglycemia, a condition that generally affects people with low blood sugar levels."," Hypoglycemia means low blood glucose, or blood sugar . Your body needs glucose to have enough energy. After you eat, your blood absorbs glucose. If you eat more sugar than your body needs, your muscles, and liver store the extra. When your blood sugar begins to fall, a hormone tells your liver to release glucose. In most people, this raises blood sugar. If it doesn't, you have hypoglycemia, and your blood sugar can be dangerously low. Signs include Hunger Shakiness Dizziness Confusion Difficulty speaking Feeling anxious or weak In people with diabetes, hypoglycemia is often a side effect of diabetes medicines . Eating or drinking something with carbohydrates can help. If it happens often, your health care provider may need to change your treatment plan. You can also have low blood sugar without having diabetes. Causes include certain medicines or diseases, hormone or enzyme deficiencies, and tumors. Laboratory tests can help find the cause. The kind of treatment depends on why you have low blood sugar. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hypothermia,https://medlineplus.gov/hypothermia.html,"People with hypothermia suffer from low body temperature, which is usually below 95 degrees. Read about the common ways to get hypothermia."," Cold weather can affect your body in different ways. You can get frostbite , which is an injury to the body that is caused by freezing. Your body can also lose heat faster than you can produce it. That can cause hypothermia, or abnormally low body temperature. It can make you sleepy, confused, and clumsy. Because it happens gradually and affects your thinking, you may not realize you need help. That makes it especially dangerous. A body temperature below 95 F (35 C) is a medical emergency and can lead to death if not treated promptly. Anyone who spends much time outdoors in cold weather can get hypothermia. You can also get it from being cold and wet, or under cold water for too long. Babies and old people are especially at risk. Babies can get it from sleeping in a cold room. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Hypothyroidism,https://medlineplus.gov/hypothyroidism.html,Hypothyroidism happens when your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone to meet your body's needs. Hypothyroidism is more common in women.," What is hypothyroidism? Hypothyroidism, or underactive thyroid, happens when your thyroid gland doesn't make enough thyroid hormones to meet your body's needs. Your thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck. It makes hormones that control the way the body uses energy. These hormones affect nearly every organ in your body and control many of your body's most important functions. For example, they affect your breathing, heart rate, weight, digestion, and moods. Without enough thyroid hormones, many of your body's functions slow down. But there are treatments that can help. What causes hypothyroidism? Hypothyroidism has several causes. They include Hashimoto's disease, an autoimmune disorder where your immune system attacks your thyroid. This is the most common cause. Thyroiditis, inflammation of the thyroid Congenital hypothyroidism, hypothyroidism that is present at birth Surgical removal of part or all of the thyroid Radiation treatment of the thyroid Certain medicines In rare cases, a pituitary disease or too much or too little iodine in your diet Who is at risk for hypothyroidism? You are at higher risk for hypothyroidism if you Are a woman Are older than age 60 Have had a thyroid problem before, such as a goiter Have had surgery to correct a thyroid problem Have received radiation treatment to the thyroid, neck, or chest Have a family history of thyroid disease Were pregnant or had a baby in the past 6 months Have Turner syndrome , a genetic disorder that affects females Have pernicious anemia , in which the body cannot make enough healthy red blood cells because it does not have enough vitamin B12 Have Sjogren's syndrome , a disease that causes dry eyes and mouth Have type 1 diabetes Have rheumatoid arthritis , an autoimmune disease that affects the joints Have lupus , a chronic autoimmune disease What are the symptoms of hypothyroidism? The symptoms of hypothyroidism can vary from person to person and may include Fatigue Weight gain A puffy face Trouble tolerating cold Joint and muscle pain Constipation Dry skin Dry, thinning hair Decreased sweating Heavy or irregular menstrual periods Fertility problems in women Depression Slowed heart rate Goiter, an enlarged thyroid that may cause your neck to look swollen. Sometimes it can cause trouble with breathing or swallowing. Because hypothyroidism develops slowly, many people don't notice symptoms of the disease for months or even years. What other problems can hypothyroidism cause? Hypothyroidism can contribute to high cholesterol . In rare cases, untreated hypothyroidism can cause myxedema coma. This is a condition in which your body's functions slow down to the point that it becomes life-threatening. During pregnancy, hypothyroidism can cause complications , such as premature birth , high blood pressure in pregnancy , and miscarriage . It can also slow the baby's growth and development . How is hypothyroidism diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take your medical history, including asking about symptoms Will do a physical exam May do thyroid tests , such as TSH , T3 , T4 , and thyroid antibody blood tests Imaging tests , such as a thyroid scan, ultrasound , or radioactive iodine uptake test. A radioactive iodine uptake test measures how much radioactive iodine your thyroid takes up from your blood after you swallow a small amount of it. What are the treatments for hypothyroidism? The treatment for hypothyroidism is medicine to replace the hormone that your own thyroid can no longer make. About 6 to 8 weeks after you start taking the medicine, you will get a blood test to check your thyroid hormone level. Your health care provider will adjust your dose if needed. Each time your dose is adjusted, you'll have another blood test. Once you find the right dose, you will probably get a blood test in 6 months. After that, you will need the test once a year. If you take your medicine according to the instructions, you usually should be able to control the hypothyroidism. You should never stop taking your medicine without talking with your health care provider first. If you have Hashimoto's disease or other types of autoimmune thyroid disorders, you may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Talk to your health care provider about which foods, supplements, and medicines you need to avoid. Women need more iodine when they are pregnant because the baby gets iodine from the mother's diet. If you are pregnant, talk with your health care provider about how much iodine you need. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Hysterectomy,https://medlineplus.gov/hysterectomy.html,A hysterectomy is a surgery to remove a woman's uterus. There are different types of hysterectomy surgeries. Learn why they are used as treatments.," A hysterectomy is surgery to remove a woman's uterus or womb. The uterus is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant. After a hysterectomy, you no longer have menstrual periods and can't become pregnant. Sometimes the surgery also removes the ovaries and fallopian tubes. If you have both ovaries taken out, you will enter menopause . Your health care provider might recommend a hysterectomy if you have Fibroids Endometriosis that hasn't been cured by medicine or surgery Uterine prolapse - when the uterus drops into the vagina Cancer of the uterine , cervix , or ovaries Vaginal bleeding that persists despite treatment Chronic pelvic pain , as a last resort Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Immune System and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/immunesystemanddisorders.html,Your immune system is a complex system that work together. When it doesn't the serious results can be disorders such as autoimmune diseases.," What is the immune system? Your immune system is a complex network of cells, tissues, and organs. Together they help the body fight infections and other diseases. When germs such as bacteria or viruses invade your body, they attack and multiply. This is called an infection. The infection causes the disease that makes you sick. Your immune system protects you from the disease by fighting off the germs. What are the parts of the immune system? The immune system has many different parts, including Your skin, which can help prevent germs from getting into the body Mucous membranes, which are the moist, inner linings of some organs and body cavities. They make mucus and other substances which can trap and fight germs. White blood cells, which fight germs Organs and tissues of the lymph system , such as the thymus, spleen , tonsils, lymph nodes, lymph vessels, and bone marrow . They produce, store, and carry white blood cells. How does the immune system work? Your immune system defends your body against substances it sees as harmful or foreign. These substances are called antigens. They may be germs such as bacteria and viruses. They might be chemicals or toxins. They could also be cells that are damaged from things like cancer or sunburn . When your immune system recognizes an antigen, it attacks it. This is called an immune response. Part of this response is to make antibodies. Antibodies are proteins that work to attack, weaken, and destroy antigens. Your body also makes other cells to fight the antigen. Afterwards, your immune system remembers the antigen. If it sees the antigen again, it can recognize it. It will quickly send out the right antibodies, so in most cases, you don't get sick. This protection against a certain disease is called immunity. What are the types of immunity? There are three different types of immunity: Innate immunity is the protection that you are born with. It is your body's first line of defense. It includes barriers such as the skin and mucous membranes. They keep harmful substances from entering the body. It also includes some cells and chemicals which can attack foreign substances. Active immunity , also called adaptive immunity, develops when you are infected with or vaccinated against a foreign substance. Active immunity is usually long-lasting. For many diseases, it can last your entire life. Passive immunity happens when you receive antibodies to a disease instead of making them through your own immune system. For example, newborn babies have antibodies from their mothers. People can also get passive immunity through blood products that contain antibodies. This kind of immunity gives you protection right away. But it only lasts a few weeks or months. What can go wrong with the immune system? Sometimes a person may have an immune response even though there is no real threat. This can lead to problems such as allergies , asthma , and autoimmune diseases . If you have an autoimmune disease, your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Other immune system problems happen when your immune system does not work correctly. These problems include immunodeficiency diseases. If you have an immunodeficiency disease, you get sick more often. Your infections may last longer and can be more serious and harder to treat. They are often genetic disorders . There are other diseases that can affect your immune system. For example, HIV is a virus that harms your immune system by destroying your white blood cells. If HIV is not treated, it can lead to AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). People with AIDS have badly damaged immune systems. They get an increasing number of severe illnesses."
Impaired Driving,https://medlineplus.gov/impaireddriving.html,"Impaired driving affects everyone. Some of the causes include sleepiness, drugs and alcohol. Learn how to ensure safety on the road."," Impaired driving is dangerous. It's the cause of more than half of all car crashes. It means operating a motor vehicle while you are affected by Alcohol Legal or illegal drugs Sleepiness Distractions, such as using a cell phone or texting Having a medical condition which affects your driving For your safety and the safety of others, do not drive while impaired. Have someone else drive you or take public transportation when you cannot drive. If you need to take a call or send a text message, pull over. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration"
Impetigo,https://medlineplus.gov/impetigo.html,Impetigo is a skin infection caused by staph or strep bacterias. It can spread by contact with an infected person. Treated with antibiotics.," Impetigo is a skin infection caused by bacteria. It is usually caused by staphylococcal (staph) bacteria, but it can also be caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. It is most common in children between the ages of two and six. It usually starts when bacteria get into a break in the skin, such as a cut, scratch, or insect bite. Symptoms start with red or pimple-like sores surrounded by red skin. These sores can be anywhere, but usually they occur on your face, arms and legs. The sores fill with pus, then break open after a few days and form a thick crust. They are often itchy, but scratching them can spread the sores. Impetigo can spread by contact with sores or nasal discharge from an infected person. You can treat impetigo with antibiotics."
Indigestion,https://medlineplus.gov/indigestion.html,"If you've ever overindulged in a favorite dish, you've probably experienced indigestion (dyspepsia). Read about causes and therapies here."," Nearly everyone has had indigestion at one time. It's a feeling of discomfort or a burning feeling in your upper abdomen. You may have heartburn or belch and feel bloated. You may also feel nauseated, or even throw up. You might get indigestion from eating too much or too fast, eating high-fat foods, or eating when you're stressed. Smoking, drinking too much alcohol, using some medicines, being tired, and having ongoing stress can also cause indigestion or make it worse. Sometimes the cause is a problem with the digestive tract, like an ulcer or GERD . Avoiding foods and situations that seem to cause it may help. Because indigestion can be a sign of a more serious problem, see your health care provider if it lasts for more than two weeks or if you have severe pain or other symptoms. Your health care provider may use x-rays, lab tests, and an upper endoscopy to diagnose the cause. You may need medicines to treat the symptoms. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Indoor Air Pollution,https://medlineplus.gov/indoorairpollution.html,"Indoor air pollution has the same negative effects as environmental pollution. Sources include mold, pesticides and more. Find out how you can reduce it."," We usually think of air pollution as being outdoors, but the air in your house or office could also be polluted. Sources of indoor pollution include Mold and pollen Tobacco smoke Household products and pesticides Gases such as radon and carbon monoxide Materials used in the building such as asbestos , formaldehyde and lead Sometimes a group of people have symptoms that seem to be linked to time spent in a certain building. There may be a specific cause, such as Legionnaire's disease. Sometimes the cause of the illness cannot be found. This is known as sick building syndrome. Usually indoor air quality problems only cause discomfort. Most people feel better as soon as they remove the source of the pollution. However, some pollutants can cause diseases that show up much later, such as respiratory diseases or cancer. Making sure that your building is well-ventilated and getting rid of pollutants can improve the quality of your indoor air. Environmental Protection Agency"
Infant and Newborn Care,https://medlineplus.gov/infantandnewborncare.html,Going home with a new baby is exciting but it can be scary too. Read about the changes a newborn goes through and also see tips for proper baby care.," Going home with a new baby is exciting, but it can be scary, too. Newborns have many needs, like frequent feedings and diaper changes. Babies can have health issues that are different from older children and adults, like diaper rash and cradle cap. Your baby will go through many changes during the first year of life. You may feel uneasy at first. Ask your health care provider for help if you need it."
Infant and Newborn Development,https://medlineplus.gov/infantandnewborndevelopment.html,"Babies do not develop at the same rate. However, there are 5 growth areas that are crucial to infant and newborn development. Read about them."," When will my baby take his first step or say her first word? During their first year, babies start to develop skills they will use for the rest of their lives. The normal growth of babies can be broken down into the following areas: Gross motor - controlling the head, sitting, crawling, maybe even starting to walk Fine motor - holding a spoon, picking up a piece of cereal between thumb and finger Sensory - seeing, hearing, tasting, touching and smelling Language - starting to make sounds, learning some words, understanding what people say Social - the ability to play with family members and other children Babies do not develop at the same rate. There is a wide range of what is considered &quot;normal.&quot; Your baby may be ahead in some areas and slightly behind in others. If you are worried about possible delays, talk to your baby's health care provider."
Infant and Newborn Nutrition,https://medlineplus.gov/infantandnewbornnutrition.html,"From breastfeeding to solid foods, infant and newborn nutrition provides babies with nutrients needed to grow. Read about how to identify allergies."," Food provides the energy and nutrients that babies need to be healthy. For a baby, breast milk is best. It has all the necessary vitamins and minerals. Infant formulas are available for babies whose mothers are not able to or decide not to breastfeed. Infants are usually ready to eat solid foods at about 6 months of age. Check with your health care provider for the best time for your baby to start. If you introduce one new food at a time, you will be able to identify any foods that cause allergies in your baby. Allergic reactions include a a rash , diarrhea , or vomiting . Many parents are concerned about peanut allergies. When babies can eat foods that contain peanuts depends on their risk of food allergies: Most babies can have peanut products when they are about 6 months of age Babies who have mild to moderate eczema have a higher risk of food allergies. They usually can eat peanut products at about 6 months of age. If you have concerns about this, check with your baby's health care provider. Babies who have severe eczema or egg allergies are at high risk for peanut allergies. If your baby is at high risk, check with your baby's health care provider. Your baby may need allergy testing. Your baby's provider can also recommend when and how to give your baby peanut products. There are some foods that you should avoid feeding your baby: Do not give your baby honey before 1 year of age. Honey may contain bacteria that can cause botulism in babies. Avoid cow's milk before age 1, since it does not have all of the nutrients that babies need and babies cannot digest it Unpasteurized drinks or foods (such as juices, milks, yogurt, or cheeses) may put your child at risk for an E. coli infection . E coli is a harmful bacteria that can cause severe diarrhea. Certain foods that can cause choking , such as hard candy, popcorn, whole nuts, and grapes (unless they are cut into small pieces). Don't give your child these foods before age 3. Because it contains a lot of sugar, babies should not drink juice before age 1"
Infection Control,https://medlineplus.gov/infectioncontrol.html,"Every year, lives are lost because of the spread of hospital infections. Read about the preventive steps you can take, such as proper handwashing"," Every year, lives are lost because of the spread of infections in hospitals. Health care workers can take steps to prevent the spread of infectious diseases . These steps are part of infection control. Proper hand washing is the most effective way to prevent the spread of infections in hospitals. If you are a patient, don't be afraid to remind friends, family and health care providers to wash their hands before getting close to you. Other steps health care workers can take include Covering coughs and sneezes Staying up to date with vaccinations Using gloves, masks and protective clothing Making tissues and hand cleaners available Following hospital guidelines when dealing with blood or contaminated items"
Infections and Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html,"If you're pregnant and get an infection, it could be dangerous for you and your baby. Learn tips to avoid getting infections and treatment options."," During pregnancy , some common infections like the common cold or a skin infection do not usually cause serious problems. But other infections can be dangerous to you, your baby, or both. Some infections may lead to preterm birth and low birth weight babies . Others can cause serious illness, birth defects , and lifelong disabilities, such as hearing loss or learning problems . Some of the infections that can be dangerous during pregnancy include Bacterial vaginosis (BV) Group B strep (GBS) Hepatitis Sexually transmitted diseases Toxoplasmosis Urinary tract infections Yeast infections Zika virus To try to prevent infections, Don't eat raw or undercooked meat Don't share food or drinks with other people Wash your hands frequently Don't empty cat litter. Cats can transmit toxoplasmosis. If you do get an infection during pregnancy, contact your health care provider about how best to protect you and your baby. Only some medicines are safe during pregnancy ."
Infectious Arthritis,https://medlineplus.gov/infectiousarthritis.html,"Infectious or septic arthritis is a bacterial infection of the joint. Learn why people get infectious arthritis, tests needed and how it is treated."," Most kinds of arthritis cause pain and swelling in your joints. Joints are places where two bones meet, such as your elbow or knee. Infectious arthritis is an infection in the joint. The infection comes from a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection that spreads from another part of the body. Symptoms of infectious arthritis include Intense pain in the joint Joint redness and swelling Chills and fever Inability to move the area with the infected joint One type of infectious arthritis is reactive arthritis. The reaction is to an infection somewhere else in your body. The joint is usually the knee, ankle, or toe. Sometimes, reactive arthritis is set off by an infection in the bladder, or in the urethra, which carries urine out of the body. In women, an infection in the vagina can cause the reaction. For both men and women, it can start with bacteria passed on during sex. Another form of reactive arthritis starts with eating food or handling something that has bacteria on it. To diagnose infectious arthritis, your health care provider may do tests of your blood, urine, and joint fluid. Treatment includes medicines and sometimes surgery."
Infectious Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/infectiousdiseases.html," Infectious diseases are caused by four main kinds of germs. Vaccines, proper hand washing and medicines can help prevent infections. Discover more."," Germs, or microbes, are found everywhere - in the air, soil, and water. There are also germs on your skin and in your body. Many of them are harmless, and some can even be helpful. But some of them can make you sick. Infectious diseases are diseases that are caused by germs. There are many different ways that you can get an infectious disease: Through direct contact with a person who is sick. This includes kissing, touching, sneezing, coughing, and sexual contact. Pregnant mothers can also pass some germs along to their babies. Through indirect contact, when you touch something that has germs on it. For example, you could get germs if someone who is sick touched a door handle, and then you touch it. Through insect or animal bites Through contaminated food, water, soil, or plants There are four main kinds of germs: Bacteria - one-celled germs that multiply quickly. They may give off toxins, which are harmful chemicals that can make you sick. Strep throat and urinary tract infections are common bacterial infections. Viruses - tiny capsules that contain genetic material. They invade your cells so that they can multiply. This can kill, damage, or change the cells and make you sick. Viral infections include HIV/AIDS and the common cold . Fungi - primitive plant-like organisms such as mushrooms, mold, mildew, and yeasts. Athlete's foot is a common fungal infection. Parasites - animals or plants that survive by living on or in other living things. Malaria is an infection caused by a parasite. Infectious diseases can cause many different symptoms. Some are so mild that you may not even notice any symptoms, while others can be life-threatening. There are treatments for some infectious diseases, but for others, such as some viruses, you can only treat your symptoms. You can take steps to prevent many infectious diseases: Get vaccinated Wash your hands often Pay attention to food safety Avoid contact with wild animals Practice safe sex Don't share items such as toothbrushes, combs, and straws"
Infectious Mononucleosis,https://medlineplus.gov/infectiousmononucleosis.html,"Infectious mononucleosis or mono, an infection usually caused by a virus spread in saliva. Referred to as the kissing disease. Learn the symptoms."," Infectious mononucleosis, or ""mono"", is an infection usually caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. The virus spreads through saliva, which is why it's sometimes called ""kissing disease."" Mono occurs most often in teens and young adults. However, you can get it at any age. Symptoms of mono include Fever Sore throat Swollen lymph glands Sometimes you may also have a swollen spleen. Serious problems are rare. A blood test can show if you have mono. Most people get better in two to four weeks. However, you may feel tired for a few months afterward. Treatment focuses on helping symptoms and includes medicines for pain and fever, warm salt water gargles and plenty of rest and fluids."
Infertility,https://medlineplus.gov/infertility.html,"Infertility is when a woman can't get pregnant after a year or keeps having miscarriages. Read about infertility, its causes, and treatments."," Infertility means not being able to become pregnant after a year of trying. If a woman can get pregnant but keeps having miscarriages or stillbirths , that's also called infertility. Infertility is fairly common. After one year of having unprotected sex, about 15% of couples are unable to get pregnant. About a third of the time, infertility can be traced to the woman . In another third of cases, it is because of the man . The rest of the time, it is because of both partners or no cause can be found. There are treatments that are specifically for men or for women. Some involve both partners. Drugs, assisted reproductive technology , and surgery are common treatments. Happily, many couples treated for infertility go on to have babies. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Inhalants,https://medlineplus.gov/inhalants.html,"Read more about the short and long-term effects of inhalants, which can be just as bad as alcohol and drug abuse."," What are inhalants? Inhalants are substances that people inhale (breathe in) to get high. There are other substances that people might inhale, such as alcohol. But those are not called inhalants, because they can also be used another way. Inhalants are the substances that you can misuse only by inhaling them. Using inhalants to try to get high, even once, can be very harmful to your brain and body. It can even lead to death. What are the types of inhalants? Inhalants are often products that are easily bought and can be found in the home or workplace. They contain dangerous substances that have psychoactive (mind-altering) properties when they are inhaled. There are four main types of inhalants are Solvents , which are liquids that become gas at room temperature. They include paint thinner, nail polish remover, gasoline, and glue. Aerosol sprays , such as spray paint, deodorant spray, and vegetable oil sprays Gases , including gas from lighters, whipped cream dispensers, and laughing gas Nitrites (prescription medicines for chest pain) Some of the common slang terms for various inhalants include Bold Laughing gas Poppers Rush Snappers Whippets How do people use inhalants? People who use inhalants breathe in the fumes through their nose or mouth, usually by ""sniffing,"" ""snorting,"" ""bagging,"" or ""huffing."" It's called different names depending on the substance and equipment used. The high that inhalants produce usually lasts just a few minutes, so people often try to make it last by inhaling them again and again over several hours. Who uses inhalants? Inhalants are mostly used by young kids and teens. They often try inhalants before they try other substances because inhalants are easier to get. What are the signs that someone is using inhalants? Signs that someone is using inhalants include Chemical odors on breath or clothing Paint or other stains on face, hands, or clothes Hidden empty spray paint or solvent containers and chemical-soaked rags or clothing Red or runny eyes or nose Drunk or disoriented appearance Slurred speech Nausea or loss of appetite Inattentiveness, lack of coordination, irritability, and depression What are the health effects of using inhalants? Most inhalants affect your central nervous system and slow down brain activity. Inhalants can cause both short-term and long-term health effects: Short-term health effects include slurred or distorted speech, lack of coordination, euphoria (feeling ""high""), dizziness, and hallucinations Long-term health effects may include liver and kidney damage, loss of coordination, limb spasms, delayed behavioral development, and brain damage Using inhalants, even once, could lead to an overdose. This can cause you to have seizures or your heart to stop. It can also be deadly. Are inhalants addictive? Addiction to inhalants is rare, but it can happen if you use them repeatedly. Stopping them can cause withdrawal symptoms, such as nausea , sweating , problems sleeping , and mood changes. Behavioral therapy may help people who are addicted to inhalants. Can inhalant misuse be prevented? To try to prevent inhalant abuse, parents should talk to their children about it. They should discuss the dangers of inhalants and how to deal with peer pressure if someone asks them to try it. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Inhalation Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/inhalationinjuries.html,"There are a variety of substances you can inhale that can cause internal injuries, such as smoke and toxic fumes. Discover the symptoms and treatment."," Inhalation injuries are acute injuries to your respiratory system and lungs. They can happen if you breathe in toxic substances, such as smoke (from fires), chemicals, particle pollution, and gases. Inhalation injuries can also be caused by extreme heat; these are a type of thermal injuries. Over half of deaths from fires are due to inhalation injuries. Symptoms of inhalation injuries can depend on what you breathed in. But they often include Coughing and phlegm A scratchy throat Irritated sinuses Shortness of breath Chest pain or tightness Headaches Stinging eyes A runny nose If you have a chronic heart or lung problem, an inhalation injury can make it worse. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider may use a scope to look at your airways and check for damage. Other possible tests include imaging tests of the lungs, blood tests, and lung function tests. If you have an inhalation injury, your health care provider will make sure that your airway is not blocked. Treatment is with oxygen therapy , and in some cases, medicines. Some patients need to use a ventilator to breathe. Most people get better, but some people have permanent lung or breathing problems. Smokers and people who had a severe injury are at a greater risk of having permanent problems. You can take steps to try to prevent inhalation injuries: At home, practice fire safety , which includes preventing fires and having a plan in case there is a fire If there is smoke from a wildfire nearby or lots of particulate pollution in the air, try to limit your time outdoors. Keep your indoor air as clean as possible, by keeping windows closed and using an air filter. If you have asthma, another lung disease, or heart disease, follow your health care provider's advice about your medicines and respiratory management plan. If you are working with chemicals or gases, handle them safely and use protective equipment"
Insect Bites and Stings,https://medlineplus.gov/insectbitesandstings.html,"You swat a bug off, but now you have an itchy bump. Was it a mosquito, a flea, a tick? Learn how to prevent, identify, and treat bug bites and stings."," Most insect bites are harmless, though they sometimes cause discomfort. Bee, wasp, and hornet stings and fire ant bites usually hurt. Mosquito and flea bites usually itch. Insects can also spread diseases. In the United States, some mosquitoes spread West Nile virus . Travelers outside the United States may be at risk for malaria and other infections. To prevent insect bites and their complications Don't bother insects Use insect repellant Wear protective clothing Be careful when you eat outside because food attracts insects If you know you have severe allergic reactions to insect bites and stings (such as anaphylaxis ), carry an emergency epinephrine kit"
Insomnia,https://medlineplus.gov/insomnia.html,"Have trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or both? You may have insomnia, a common sleep disorder. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment."," What is insomnia? Insomnia is a common sleep disorder . If you have it, you may have trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or both. As a result, you may get too little sleep or have poor-quality sleep. You may not feel refreshed when you wake up. What are the types of insomnia? Insomnia can be acute (short-term) or chronic (ongoing). Acute insomnia is common. Common causes include stress at work, family pressures, or a traumatic event. It usually lasts for days or weeks. Chronic insomnia lasts for a month or longer. Most cases of chronic insomnia are secondary. This means they are the symptom or side effect of some other problem, such as certain medical conditions, medicines, and other sleep disorders. Substances such as caffeine , tobacco, and alcohol can also be a cause. Sometimes chronic insomnia is the primary problem. This means that it is not caused by something else. Its cause is not well understood, but long-lasting stress, emotional upset, travel and shift work can be factors. Primary insomnia usually lasts more than one month. Who is at risk for insomnia? Insomnia is common. It affects women more often than men. You can get it at any age, but older adults are more likely to have it. You are also at higher risk of insomnia if you Have a lot of stress Are depressed or have other emotional distress, such as divorce or death of a spouse Have a lower income Work at night or have frequent major shifts in your work hours Travel long distances with time changes Have an inactive lifestyle Are African American; research shows that African Americans take longer to fall asleep, don't sleep as well, and have more sleep-related breathing problems than whites. What are the symptoms of insomnia? Symptoms of insomnia include: Lying awake for a long time before you fall asleep Sleeping for only short periods Being awake for much of the night Feeling as if you haven't slept at all Waking up too early What other problems can insomnia cause? Insomnia can cause daytime sleepiness and a lack of energy. It also can make you feel anxious, depressed, or irritable. You may have trouble focusing on tasks, paying attention, learning, and remembering. Insomnia also can cause other serious problems. For example, it could make you may feel drowsy while driving. This could cause you get into a car accident. How is insomnia diagnosed? To diagnose insomnia, your health care provider Takes your medical history Asks for your sleep history. Your provider will ask you for details about your sleep habits. Does a physical exam, to rule out other medical problems that might cause insomnia May recommend a sleep study. A sleep study measures how well you sleep and how your body responds to sleep problems. What are the treatments for insomnia? Treatments include lifestyle changes, counseling, and medicines: Lifestyle changes, including good sleep habits , often help relieve acute (short-term) insomnia. These changes might make it easier for you to fall asleep and stay asleep. A type of counseling called cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can help relieve the anxiety linked to chronic (ongoing) insomnia Several medicines also can help relieve your insomnia and allow you to re-establish a regular sleep schedule If your insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem, it's important to treat that problem (if possible). NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
International Health,https://medlineplus.gov/internationalhealth.html,The spread of a disease does not stop at a country's borders. Read about the common diseases that impact international health such as HIV and malaria. ," The spread of a disease doesn't stop at a country's borders. With more people traveling to other countries and living in crowded cities, it's easier for germs to spread. Infectious diseases that start in one part of the world can quickly reach another. Resistance to medicines such as antbiotics is on the rise. This makes it harder to treat certain diseases. Natural and man-made disasters create refugee populations with immediate and long-term health problems. Some of the major diseases currently affecting countries around the globe include HIV/AIDS , malaria , Zika , and tuberculosis . Climate change is also an international problem which can affect people's health. Many countries and health organizations are working together and sharing information on these and other health issues."
Interstitial Cystitis,https://medlineplus.gov/interstitialcystitis.html,"Do you suffer from discomfort or pain in the bladder? If yes, you may be dealing with Interstitial cystitis (IC). Read more about it"," Interstitial cystitis (IC) is a condition that causes discomfort or pain in the bladder and a need to urinate frequently and urgently. It is far more common in women than in men. The symptoms vary from person to person. Some people may have pain without urgency or frequency. Others have urgency and frequency without pain. Women's symptoms often get worse during their periods. They may also have pain with sexual intercourse. The cause of IC isn't known. There is no one test to tell if you have it. Doctors often run tests to rule out other possible causes of symptoms. There is no cure for IC, but treatments can help most people feel better. They include Distending, or inflating, the bladder Bathing the inside of the bladder with a drug solution Oral medicines Electrical nerve stimulation Physical therapy Lifestyle changes Bladder training In rare cases, surgery NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Interstitial Lung Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/interstitiallungdiseases.html,"Interstitial lung diseases are a group of diseases that inflame or scar the lungs. Breathing in particles (asbestosis, silicosis) causes some types. "," Interstitial lung disease is the name for a large group of diseases that inflame or scar the lungs. The inflammation and scarring make it hard to get enough oxygen. The scarring is called pulmonary fibrosis . Breathing in dust or other particles in the air is responsible for some types of interstitial lung diseases. Specific types include Black lung disease among coal miners, from inhaling coal dust Farmer's lung, from inhaling farm dust Asbestosis, from inhaling asbestos fibers Siderosis, from inhaling iron from mines or welding fumes Silicosis, from inhaling silica dust Other causes include autoimmune diseases or occupational exposures to molds, gases, or fumes. Some types of interstitial lung disease have no known cause. Treatment depends on the type of exposure and the stage of the disease. It may involve medicines, oxygen therapy, or a lung transplant in severe cases."
Intestinal Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/intestinalcancer.html,There are five types of small intestine cancer. Find out how your diet and health history can affect your risk. Learn about intestinal cancer here.," Your small intestine is part of your digestive system. It is a long tube that connects your stomach to your large intestine. Intestinal cancer is rare, but eating a high-fat diet or having Crohn's disease , celiac disease, or a history of colonic polyps can increase your risk. Possible signs of small intestine cancer include Abdominal pain Weight loss for no reason Blood in the stool A lump in the abdomen Imaging tests that create pictures of the small intestine and the area around it can help diagnose intestinal cancer and show whether it has spread. Surgery is the most common treatment. Additional options include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or a combination. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Intestinal Obstruction,https://medlineplus.gov/intestinalobstruction.html,"Intestinal or bowel obstructions can have many causes. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, and tests. "," An intestinal obstruction occurs when food or stool cannot move through the intestines. The obstruction can be complete or partial. There are many causes. The most common are adhesions , hernias , cancers, and certain medicines. Symptoms include Severe abdominal pain or cramping Vomiting Bloating Loud bowel sounds Swelling of the abdomen Inability to pass gas Constipation A complete intestinal obstruction is a medical emergency. It often requires surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Iron,https://medlineplus.gov/iron.html,Our bodies need the right amount of iron to function properly. Read about what can happen when you consume too much or too little of it.," Iron is a mineral that our bodies need for many functions. For example, iron is part of hemoglobin, a protein which carries oxygen from our lungs throughout our bodies. It helps our muscles store and use oxygen. Iron is also part of many other proteins and enzymes. Your body needs the right amount of iron. If you have too little iron, you may develop iron deficiency anemia . Causes of low iron levels include blood loss, poor diet, or an inability to absorb enough iron from foods. People at higher risk of having too little iron are young children and women who are pregnant or have periods. Too much iron can damage your body. Taking too many iron supplements can cause iron poisoning. Some people have an inherited disease called hemochromatosis . It causes too much iron to build up in the body. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Irritable Bowel Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/irritablebowelsyndrome.html,"Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) can cause a great deal of discomfort. Learn about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of IBS. "," Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a problem that affects the large intestine. It can cause abdominal cramping, bloating, and a change in bowel habits. Some people with the disorder have constipation. Some have diarrhea. Others go back and forth between the two. Although IBS can cause a great deal of discomfort, it does not harm the intestines. IBS is common. It affects about twice as many women as men and is most often found in people younger than 45 years. No one knows the exact cause of IBS. There is no specific test for it. Your doctor may run tests to be sure you don't have other diseases. These tests may include stool sampling tests, blood tests, and x-rays. Your doctor may also do a test called a sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy . Most people diagnosed with IBS can control their symptoms with diet, stress management, probiotics, and medicine. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Ischemic Stroke,https://medlineplus.gov/ischemicstroke.html,"A stroke is a medical emergency that should be treated immediately. Read about the causes, symptoms and treatments for an ischemic stroke."," A stroke is a medical emergency. There are two types - ischemic and hemorrhagic . Ischemic stroke is the most common type. It is usually caused by a blood clot that blocks or plugs a blood vessel in the brain. This keeps blood from flowing to the brain. Within minutes, brain cells begin to die. Another cause is stenosis, or narrowing of the artery. This can happen because of atherosclerosis , a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) occur when the blood supply to the brain is interrupted briefly. Having a TIA can mean you are at risk for having a more serious stroke. Symptoms of stroke are Sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg (especially on one side of the body) Sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding speech Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes Sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination Sudden severe headache with no known cause It is important to treat strokes as quickly as possible. Blood thinners may be used to stop a stroke while it is happening by quickly dissolving the blood clot. Post-stroke rehabilitation can help people overcome disabilities caused by stroke damage. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Islet Cell Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/isletcelltransplantation.html,Islets in the pancreas contain beta cells that produce insulin. Islet transplantation is an experimental treatment for type 1 diabetes.," Islets are cells found in clusters throughout the pancreas . They are made up of several types of cells. One of these is beta cells, which make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps the body use glucose for energy. Islet cell transplantation transfers cells from an organ donor into the body of another person. It is an experimental treatment for type 1 diabetes . In type 1 diabetes, the beta cells of the pancreas no longer make insulin. A person who has type 1 diabetes must take insulin daily to live. Transplanted islet cells, however, can take over the work of the destroyed cells. The beta cells in these islets will begin to make and release insulin. Researchers hope islet transplantation will help people with type 1 diabetes live without daily insulin injections. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Itching,https://medlineplus.gov/itching.html,Pruritis or itchy skin is tingling or irritation that makes you want to scratch the area. It's a symptom of many health conditions. Learn the causes.," What is itching? Itching is an irritating sensation that makes you want to scratch your skin. Sometimes it can feel like pain, but it is different. Often, you feel itchy in one area in your body, but sometimes you may feel itching all over. Along with the itching, you may also have a rash or hives . What causes itching? Itching is a symptom of many health conditions. Some common causes are Allergic reactions to food , insect bites , pollen , and medicines Skin conditions such as eczema , psoriasis , and dry skin Irritating chemicals, cosmetics , and other substances Parasites such as pinworms , scabies , head and body lice Pregnancy Liver , kidney , or thyroid diseases Certain cancers or cancer treatments Diseases that can affect the nervous system, such as diabetes and shingles What are the treatments for itching? Most itching is not serious. To feel better, you could try Applying cold compresses Using moisturizing lotions Taking lukewarm or oatmeal baths Using over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream or antihistamines Avoiding scratching, wearing irritating fabrics, and exposure to high heat and humidity Contact your health care provider if your itching is severe, does not go away after a few weeks, or does not have an apparent cause. You may need other treatments, such as medicines or light therapy. If you have an underlying disease that is causing the itching, treating that disease may help."
Jaundice,https://medlineplus.gov/jaundice.html,Jaundice is a yellow coloring of the skin or eyes caused by too much bilirubin in the body. Jaundice can happen for many reasons. Learn about it here.," Jaundice causes your skin and the whites of your eyes to turn yellow. Too much bilirubin causes jaundice. Bilirubin is a yellow chemical in hemoglobin, the substance that carries oxygen in your red blood cells. As red blood cells break down, your body builds new cells to replace them. The old ones are processed by the liver. If the liver cannot handle the blood cells as they break down, bilirubin builds up in the body and your skin may look yellow. Many healthy babies have some jaundice during the first week of life. It usually goes away. However, jaundice can happen at any age and may be a sign of a problem. Jaundice can happen for many reasons, such as Blood diseases Genetic syndromes Liver diseases, such as hepatitis or cirrhosis Blockage of bile ducts Infections Medicines"
Jaw Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/jawinjuriesanddisorders.html,"The types of jaw injuries and disorders that can cause problems are dislocations, fractures, misaligned teeth and more. Learn about them here."," Your jaw is a set of bones that holds your teeth. It consists of two main parts. The upper part is the maxilla. It doesn't move. The moveable lower part is called the mandible. You move it when you talk or chew. The two halves of the mandible meet at your chin. The joint where the mandible meets your skull is the temporomandibular joint. Jaw problems include Fractures (broken bones) Dislocations Temporomandibular joint dysfunction Osteonecrosis , which happens when your bones lose their blood supply Cancers Treatment of jaw problems depends on the cause."
Joint Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/jointdisorders.html,Joint disorders are caused by diseases and injuries. Treatments and therapies depend on the cause and range from pain relievers to surgery.," A joint is where two or more bones come together, like the knee, hip, elbow, or shoulder. Joints can be damaged by many types of injuries or diseases, including Arthritis - inflammation of a joint. It causes pain, stiffness, and swelling. Over time, the joint can become severely damaged. Bursitis - inflammation of a fluid-filled sac that cushions the joint Dislocations - injuries that force the ends of the bones out of position Treatment of joint problems depends on the cause. If you have a sports injury , treatment often begins with the RICE (Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation) method to relieve pain, reduce swelling, and speed healing. Other possible treatments include pain relievers, keeping the injured area from moving, rehabilitation, and sometimes surgery. For arthritis, injuries, or other diseases, you may need joint replacement surgery to remove the damaged joint and put in a new one. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Juvenile Arthritis,https://medlineplus.gov/juvenilearthritis.html,"Juvenile arthritis or JA, causes joint swelling, pain, stiffness and loss of motion in children. Learn diagnosis and tests for JA."," Juvenile arthritis (JA) is arthritis that happens in children. It causes joint swelling, pain, stiffness, and loss of motion. It can affect any joint, but is more common in the knees, hands, and feet. In some cases it can affect internal organs as well. The most common type of JA that children get is juvenile idiopathic arthritis. There are several other forms of arthritis affecting children. One early sign of JA may be limping in the morning. Symptoms can come and go. Some children have just one or two flare-ups. Others have symptoms that never go away. JA can cause growth problems and eye inflammation in some children. No one knows exactly what causes JA. Most types are autoimmune disorders . This means that your immune system, which normally helps your body fight infection, attacks your body's own tissues. JA can be hard to diagnose. Your health care provider may do a physical exam, lab tests, and x-rays. A team of providers usually treats JA. Medicines and physical therapy can help maintain movement and reduce swelling and pain. They may also help prevent and treat complications. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Kaposi Sarcoma,https://medlineplus.gov/kaposisarcoma.html,Kaposi sarcoma or KS is a cancer that causes red or purple patches of abnormal tissue to grow under the skin. Can spread to organs and cause bleeding.," Kaposi sarcoma (KS) is a cancer that causes patches of abnormal tissue to grow under the skin, in the lining of the mouth, nose, and throat, in lymph nodes, or in other organs. These patches, or lesions, are usually red or purple. They are made of cancer cells, blood vessels, and blood cells. KS is caused by infection with human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8). Most people infected with HHV-8 don't get KS. It usually happens in People with weak immune systems, due to HIV/AIDS , drugs taken after an organ transplant, or another disease Older men of Jewish or Mediterranean descent Young men in Africa The skin lesions may not cause symptoms. But they can spread to other parts of the body, especially in people with HIV/AIDS. If they spread to the digestive tract or lungs, they can cause bleeding. Lesions on the lungs can also make it hard to breathe. Treatment depends on where the lesions are and how bad they are. Options include radiation therapy, surgery, chemotherapy, and biologic therapy. People with HIV/AIDS also take HIV/AIDS medicines . NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Kawasaki Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/kawasakidisease.html,Kawasaki disease is a rare childhood disease that makes the walls of the blood vessels in the body become inflamed. Learn what symptoms to look for. ," What is Kawasaki disease? Kawasaki disease is a rare illness that usually affects small children. Other names for it are Kawasaki syndrome and mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome. It is a type of vasculitis , which is inflammation of the blood vessels. Kawasaki disease is serious, but most children can fully recover if they are treated right away. What causes Kawasaki disease? Kawasaki disease happens when the immune system injures the blood vessels by mistake. Researchers do not fully know why this happens. But when it does, the blood vessels become inflamed and can narrow or close off. Genetics may play a role in Kawasaki disease. There may also be environmental factors, such as infections. It does not seem to be contagious. This means that it cannot be passed from one child to another. Who is at risk for Kawasaki disease? Kawasaki disease usually affects children under the age of 5. But older children and adults can sometimes get it. It is more common in boys than girls. It can affect children of any race, but those with Asian or Pacific Islander descent are more likely to get it. What are the symptoms of Kawasaki disease? The symptoms of Kawasaki disease may include High fever lasting at least five days A rash , often on the back, chest, and groin Swollen hands and feet Redness of the lips, lining of the mouth, tongue, palms of the hand, and soles of the feet Pink eye Swollen lymph nodes What other problems can Kawasaki disease cause? Sometimes Kawasaki disease can affect the walls of the coronary arteries. These arteries bring supply blood and oxygen to your heart. This can lead to An aneurysm (bulging and thinning of the walls of the arteries). This can raise the risk of blood clots s in the arteries. If the blood clots are not treated, they could lead to a heart attack or internal bleeding. Inflammation in the heart Heart valve problems Kawasaki disease can also affect other parts of the body, including the brain and nervous system, the immune system, and the digestive system. How is Kawasaki disease diagnosed? There is no specific test for Kawasaki disease. To make a diagnosis, your child's health care provider will do a physical exam and look at the signs and symptoms. The provider will likely do blood and urine tests to rule out other diseases and check for signs of inflammation. He or she may do tests to check for damage to the heart, such as an echocardiogram and electrocardiogram (EKG). What are the treatments for Kawasaki disease? Kawasaki disease is usually treated in the hospital with an intravenous (IV) dose of immunoglobulin (IVIG). Aspirin may also be part of the treatment. But do not give your child aspirin unless the health care provider tells you to. Aspirin can cause Reye syndrome in children. This is a rare, serious illness that can affect the brain and liver. Usually treatment works. But if it is not working well enough, the provider may also give your child other medicines to fight the inflammation. If the disease affects your child's heart, he or she might need additional medicines, surgery, or other medical procedures."
Kidney Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneycancer.html,Kidney cancer symptoms are hard to detect at first but they do exist. Read more about the top 5 symptoms and the treatment options available," You have two kidneys. They are fist-sized organs on either side of your backbone above your waist. The tubes inside filter and clean your blood, taking out waste products and making urine. Kidney cancer forms in the lining of tiny tubes inside your kidneys. Kidney cancer becomes more likely as you age. Risk factors include smoking, having certain genetic conditions, and misusing pain medicines for a long time. You may have no symptoms at first. They may appear as the cancer grows. See your health care provider if you notice Blood in your urine A lump in your abdomen Weight loss for no reason Pain in your side that does not go away Loss of appetite Tests to diagnose kidney cancer include blood, urine, and imaging tests. You may also have a biopsy. Treatment depends on your age, your overall health and how advanced the cancer is. It might include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation, biologic, or targeted therapies. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Kidney Cysts,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneycysts.html,"Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) are kidney cysts that enlarge kidneys and make them work poorly, leading to kidney failure. Learn about PKD symptoms"," A cyst is a fluid-filled sac. You may get simple kidney cysts as you age; they are usually harmless. There are also some diseases which cause kidney cysts. One type is polycystic kidney disease (PKD). It runs in families. In PKD, many cysts grow in the kidneys. This can enlarge the kidneys and make them work poorly. About half of people with the most common type of PKD end up with kidney failure . PKD also causes cysts in other parts of the body, such as the liver. Often, there are no symptoms at first. Later, symptoms include Pain in the back and lower sides Headaches Blood in the urine Doctors diagnose PKD with imaging tests and family history. There is no cure. Treatments can help with symptoms and complications. They include medicines and lifestyle changes, and if there is kidney failure, dialysis or kidney transplants . Acquired cystic kidney disease (ACKD) happens in people who have chronic kidney disease , especially if they are on dialysis. Unlike PKD, the kidneys are normal sized, and cysts do not form in other parts of the body. ACKD often has no symptoms. Usually, the cysts are harmless and do not need treatment. If they do cause complications, treatments include medicines, draining the cysts, or surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Kidney Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneydiseases.html,"A renal disease can be attributed to a variety of causes which, include genetics, injuries and medicine. Find a full list of kidney problems"," You have two kidneys, each about the size of your fist. They are near the middle of your back, just below the rib cage. Inside each kidney there are about a million tiny structures called nephrons. They filter your blood. They remove wastes and extra water, which become urine. The urine flows through tubes called ureters. It goes to your bladder, which stores the urine until you go to the bathroom. Most kidney diseases attack the nephrons. This damage may leave kidneys unable to remove wastes. Causes can include genetic problems, injuries, or medicines. You have a higher risk of kidney disease if you have diabetes , high blood pressure , or a close family member with kidney disease. Chronic kidney disease damages the nephrons slowly over several years. Other kidney problems include Cancer Cysts Stones Infections Your doctor can do blood and urine tests to check if you have kidney disease. If your kidneys fail , you will need dialysis or a kidney transplant . NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Kidney Failure,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneyfailure.html,"Healthy kidneys clean your blood by removing excess from your body. But if kidneys are damaged, they won't work properly. Read about the treatments."," Healthy kidneys clean your blood by removing excess fluid, minerals, and wastes. They also make hormones that keep your bones strong and your blood healthy. But if the kidneys are damaged, they don't work properly. Harmful wastes can build up in your body. Your blood pressure may rise. Your body may retain excess fluid and not make enough red blood cells. This is called kidney failure. If your kidneys fail, you need treatment to replace the work they normally do. The treatment options are dialysis or a kidney transplant . Each treatment has benefits and drawbacks. No matter which treatment you choose, you'll need to make some changes in your life, including how you eat and plan your activities. But with the help of health care providers, family, and friends, most people with kidney failure can lead full and active lives. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Kidney Stones,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneystones.html,"Kidney stones (or nephrolithiasis) symptoms include vomiting, blood in your urine and more. Find a full list of symptoms and treatments available"," A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in the kidney from substances in the urine. It may be as small as a grain of sand or as large as a pearl. Most kidney stones pass out of the body without help from a doctor. But sometimes a stone will not go away. It may get stuck in the urinary tract, block the flow of urine and cause great pain. The following may be signs of kidney stones that need a doctor's help: Extreme pain in your back or side that will not go away Blood in your urine Fever and chills Vomiting Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy A burning feeling when you urinate Your doctor will diagnose a kidney stone with urine, blood, and imaging tests . If you have a stone that won't pass on its own, you may need treatment. It can be done with shock waves; with a scope inserted through the tube that carries urine out of the body, called the urethra; or with surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Kidney Tests,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneytests.html,"Your kidneys filter and clean your blood. Read about the blood, urine, and imaging tests that doctors use to diagnose and monitor kidney diseases."," You have two kidneys. They are fist-sized organs on either side of your backbone above your waist. Your kidneys filter and clean your blood, taking out waste products and making urine. Kidney tests check to see how well your kidneys are working. They include blood, urine , and imaging tests. Early kidney disease usually does not have signs or symptoms. Testing is the only way to know how your kidneys are doing. It is important for you to get checked for kidney disease if you have the key risk factors - diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, or a family history of kidney failure. Specific kidney tests include Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) - one of the most common blood tests to check for chronic kidney disease . It tells how well your kidneys are filtering. Creatinine blood and urine tests - check the levels of creatinine, a waste product that your kidneys remove from your blood Albumin urine test - checks for albumin, a protein that can pass into the urine if the kidneys are damaged Imaging tests, such as an ultrasound - provide pictures of the kidneys. The pictures help the health care provider see the size and shape of the kidneys, and check for anything unusual. Kidney biopsy - a procedure that involves taking a small piece of kidney tissue for examination with a microscope. It checks for the cause of kidney disease and how damaged your kidneys are. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Kidney Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/kidneytransplantation.html,Read more about the process and details of a kidney transplantation and how they may affect your body.," A kidney transplant is an operation that places a healthy kidney in your body. The transplanted kidney takes over the work of the two kidneys that failed , so you no longer need dialysis . During a transplant, the surgeon places the new kidney in your lower abdomen and connects the artery and vein of the new kidney to your artery and vein. Often, the new kidney will start making urine as soon as your blood starts flowing through it. But sometimes it takes a few weeks to start working. Many transplanted kidneys come from donors who have died. Some come from a living family member. The wait for a new kidney can be long. If you have a transplant, you must take drugs for the rest of your life, to keep your body from rejecting the new kidney. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Klinefelter's Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/klinefelterssyndrome.html,Klinefelter syndrome (KS) is a condition that occurs in men who have an extra X chromosome. Read about the common symptoms and treatments. ," Klinefelter syndrome (KS) is a condition that occurs in men who have an extra X chromosome. The syndrome can affect different stages of physical, language, and social development. The most common symptom is infertility . Boys may be taller than other boys their age, with more fat around the belly. After puberty, KS boys may have Smaller testes and penis Breast growth Less facial and body hair Reduced muscle tone Narrower shoulders and wider hips Weaker bones Decreased sexual interest Lower energy KS males may have learning or language problems. They may be quiet and shy and have trouble fitting in. A genetic test can diagnose KS. There is no cure, but treatments are available. It is important to start treatment as early as possible. With treatment, most boys grow up to have normal lives. Treatments include testosterone replacement therapy and breast reduction surgery. If needed, physical, speech, language, and occupational therapy may also help. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Knee Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/kneeinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Knee injuries and knee disorders can cause pain, swelling and stiffness. Knee problems can be affected by rheumatic diseases and cartilage damage."," Your knee joint is made up of bone, cartilage, ligaments and fluid. Muscles and tendons help the knee joint move. When any of these structures is hurt or diseased, you have knee problems. Knee problems can cause pain and difficulty walking. Knee problems are very common, and they occur in people of all ages. Knee problems can interfere with many things, from participation in sports to simply getting up from a chair and walking. This can have a big impact on your life. The most common disease affecting the knee is osteoarthritis . The cartilage in the knee gradually wears away, causing pain and swelling. Injuries to ligaments and tendons also cause knee problems. A common injury is to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). You usually injure your ACL by a sudden twisting motion. ACL and other knee injuries are common sports injuries . Treatment of knee problems depends on the cause. In some cases your doctor may recommend knee replacement . NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Knee Replacement,https://medlineplus.gov/kneereplacement.html,Knee replacement surgery (or knee arthroplasty) provides artificial knees in place of your damaged knees to restore function and relieve pain. ," Knee replacement is surgery for people with severe knee damage. Knee replacement can relieve pain and allow you to be more active. Your doctor may recommend it if you have knee pain and medicine and other treatments are not helping you anymore. When you have a total knee replacement, the surgeon removes damaged cartilage and bone from the surface of your knee joint and replaces them with a man-made surface of metal and plastic. In a partial knee replacement, the surgeon only replaces one part of your knee joint. The surgery can cause scarring, blood clots, and, rarely, infections. After a knee replacement, you will no longer be able to do certain activities, such as jogging and high-impact sports."
Laboratory Tests,https://medlineplus.gov/laboratorytests.html,Laboratory tests help doctors determine what is going on within your body. Many factors affect test results. Find a list of those factors.," Laboratory tests check a sample of your blood, urine, or body tissues. A technician or your doctor analyzes the test samples to see if your results fall within the normal range. The tests use a range because what is normal differs from person to person. Many factors affect test results. These include Your sex, age and race What you eat and drink Medicines you take How well you followed pre-test instructions Your doctor may also compare your results to results from previous tests. Laboratory tests are often part of a routine checkup to look for changes in your health. They also help doctors diagnose medical conditions, plan or evaluate treatments, and monitor diseases."
Lactose Intolerance,https://medlineplus.gov/lactoseintolerance.html,Lactose intolerance means that you cannot digest foods with lactose in them. Lactose is the sugar found in milk and foods made with milk. Read more.," Lactose intolerance means that you cannot digest foods with lactose in them. Lactose is the sugar found in milk and foods made with milk. After eating foods with lactose in them, you may feel sick to your stomach. You may also have Gas Diarrhea Swelling in your stomach Your doctor may do a blood, breath or stool test to find out if your problems are due to lactose intolerance. Lactose intolerance is not serious. Eating less food with lactose, or using pills or drops to help you digest lactose usually helps. You may need to take a calcium supplement if you don't get enough of it from your diet, since milk and foods made with milk are the most common source of calcium for most people. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Laser Eye Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/lasereyesurgery.html,Laser eye surgery (LASIK) is surgery to improve your vision. You may no longer need glasses or contacts. Learn about the types and who can get it.," For many people, laser eye surgery can correct their vision so they no longer need glasses or contact lenses. Laser eye surgery reshapes the cornea, the clear front part of the eye. This changes its focusing power. There are different types of laser eye surgery. LASIK - laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis - is one of the most common. Many patients who have LASIK end up with 20/20 vision. But, like all medical procedures, it has both risks and benefits. Only your eye doctor can tell if you are a good candidate for laser eye surgery."
Latex Allergy,https://medlineplus.gov/latexallergy.html,"A latex allergy causes rashes, asthma, or even anaphylaxis. Hundreds of everyday products contain latex. Learn what you need to know to avoid latex."," Latex is a milky fluid that comes from the tropical rubber tree. Hundreds of everyday products contain latex. Repeated exposure to a protein in natural latex can make you more likely to develop a latex allergy. If your immune system detects the protein, a reaction can start in minutes. You could get a rash or asthma. In rare cases you could have a severe reaction called anaphylaxis . Your doctor may use a physical exam and skin and blood tests to diagnose it. There are medicines to treat a reaction, but it is best to try to avoid latex. Common latex products include Gloves Condoms Balloons Rubber bands Shoe soles Pacifiers You can find latex-free versions of these products."
Latino and Hispanic American Health,https://medlineplus.gov/latinoandhispanicamericanhealth.html,"Genetics, environmental factors, access to healthcare, and cultural factors impact health. Learn about health issues that affect Latino and Hispanic Americans."," Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from Genetics Environmental factors Access to care Cultural factors On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Latino and Hispanic Americans."
"LDL: The ""Bad"" Cholesterol",https://medlineplus.gov/ldlthebadcholesterol.html,"LDL, or low-density lipoprotein, is the ""bad"" cholesterol. A high LDL level can lead to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries."," What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in your body. Your liver makes cholesterol, and it is also in some foods, such as meat and dairy products. Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But having too much cholesterol in your blood raises your risk of coronary artery disease . What are LDL and HDL? LDL and HDL are two types of lipoproteins. They are a combination of fat (lipid) and protein. The lipids need to be attached to the proteins so they can move through the blood. LDL and HDL have different purposes: LDL stands for low-density lipoproteins. It is sometimes called the ""bad"" cholesterol because a high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. HDL stands for high-density lipoproteins. It is sometimes called the ""good"" cholesterol because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Your liver then removes the cholesterol from your body. How can a high LDL level raise my risk of coronary artery disease and other diseases? If you have a high LDL level, this means that you have too much LDL cholesterol in your blood. This extra LDL, along with other substances, forms plaque. The plaque builds up in your arteries; this is a condition called atherosclerosis . Coronary artery disease happens when the plaque buildup is in the arteries of your heart. It causes the arteries to become hardened and narrowed, which slows down or blocks the blood flow to your heart. Since your blood carries oxygen to your heart, this means that your heart may not be able to get enough oxygen. This can cause angina (chest pain), or if the blood flow is completely blocked, a heart attack . How do I know what my LDL level is? A blood test can measure your cholesterol levels, including LDL. When and how often you should get this test depends on your age, risk factors, and family history. The general recommendations are: For people who are age 19 or younger: The first test should be between ages 9 to 11 Children should have the test again every 5 years Some children may have this test starting at age 2 if there is a family history of high blood cholesterol, heart attack, or stroke For people who are age 20 or older: Younger adults should have the test every 5 years Men ages 45 to 65 and women ages 55 to 65 should have it every 1 to 2 years What can affect my LDL level? Things that can affect your LDL level include Diet. Saturated fat and cholesterol in the food you eat make your blood cholesterol level rise Weight. Being overweight tends to raise your LDL level, lower your HDL level, and increase your total cholesterol level Physical Activity. A lack of physical activity can lead to weight gain, which can raise your LDL level Smoking. Cigarette smoking lowers your HDL cholesterol. Since HDL helps to remove LDL from your arteries, if you have less HDL, that can contribute to you having a higher LDL level. Age and Sex. As women and men get older, their cholesterol levels rise. Before the age of menopause, women have lower total cholesterol levels than men of the same age. After the age of menopause, women's LDL levels tend to rise. Genetics. Your genes partly determine how much cholesterol your body makes. High cholesterol can run in families. For example, familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an inherited form of high blood cholesterol. Medicines. Certain medicines, including steroids , some blood pressure medicines , and HIV/AIDS medicines , can raise your LDL level. Other medical conditions. Diseases such as chronic kidney disease , diabetes , and HIV/AIDS can cause a higher LDL level. Race. Certain races may have an increased risk of high blood cholesterol. For example, African Americans typically have higher HDL and LDL cholesterol levels than whites. What should my LDL level be? With LDL cholesterol, lower numbers are better, because a high LDL level can raise your risk for coronary artery disease and related problems: LDL (Bad) Cholesterol Level LDL Cholesterol Category Less than 100mg/dL Optimal 100-129mg/dL Near optimal/above optimal 130-159 mg/dL Borderline high 160-189 mg/dL High 190 mg/dL and above Very High How can I lower my LDL level? There are two main ways to lower your LDL cholesterol: Therapeutic lifestyle changes (TLC). TLC includes three parts: Heart-healthy eating. A heart-healthy eating plan limits the amount of saturated and trans fats that you eat. Examples of eating plans that can lower your cholesterol include the Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet and the DASH eating plan . Weight Management. If you are overweight, losing weight can help lower your LDL cholesterol. Physical Activity. Everyone should get regular physical activity (30 minutes on most, if not all, days). Drug Treatment. If lifestyle changes alone do not lower your cholesterol enough, you may also need to take medicines. There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available, including statins . The medicines work in different ways and can have different side effects. Talk to your health care provider about which one is right for you. While you are taking medicines to lower your cholesterol, you still should continue with the lifestyle changes. Some people with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) may receive a treatment called lipoprotein apheresis. This treatment uses a filtering machine to remove LDL cholesterol from the blood. Then the machine returns the rest of the blood back to the person. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Lead Poisoning,https://medlineplus.gov/leadpoisoning.html,"Breathing air, drinking water or eating food that contains lead can cause health problems. Find a list of scenarios that can lead to lead poisoning."," Lead is a metal that occurs naturally in the earth's crust. Lead can be found in all parts of our environment. Much of it comes from human activities such as mining and manufacturing. Lead used to be in paint; older houses may still have lead paint. You could be exposed to lead by Eating food or drinking water that contains lead. Water pipes in older homes may contain lead. Working in a job where lead is used Using lead in a hobby, such as making stained glass or lead-glazed pottery Using folk remedies such as herbs or foods that contain lead Breathing air, drinking water, eating food, or swallowing or touching dirt that contains lead can cause many health problems. Lead can affect almost every organ and system in your body. In adults, lead can increase blood pressure and cause infertility, nerve disorders, and muscle and joint pain. It can also make you irritable and affect your ability to concentrate and remember. Lead is especially dangerous for children. A child who swallows large amounts of lead may develop anemia, severe stomachache, muscle weakness, and brain damage. Even at low levels, lead can affect a child's mental and physical growth. Agency for Toxic Substances Disease Registry"
Learning Disabilities,https://medlineplus.gov/learningdisabilities.html,"Learning disabilities affect how people understand, remember and respond to information. Learn more on how to identify and cope with a learning disability."," What is a learning disability? Learning disabilities are conditions that affect the ability to learn. They can cause problems with Understanding what people are saying Speaking Reading Writing Doing math Paying attention Often, children have more than one kind of learning disability. They may also have another condition, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which can make learning even more of a challenge. What causes learning disabilities? Learning disabilities don't have anything to do with intelligence. They are caused by differences in the brain, and they affect the way the brain processes information. These differences are usually present at birth. But there are certain factors that can play a role in the development of a learning disability, including Genetics Environmental exposures (such as lead ) Problems during pregnancy (such as the mother's drug use ) How do I know if my child has a learning disability? The earlier you can find and treat a learning disability, the better. Unfortunately, learning disabilities are usually not recognized until a child is in school. If you notice that your child is struggling, talk to your child's teacher or health care provider about an evaluation for a learning disability. The evaluation may include a medical exam, a discussion of family history, and intellectual and school performance testing. What are the treatments for learning disabilities? The most common treatment for learning disabilities is special education. A teacher or other learning specialist can help your child learn skills by building on strengths and finding ways to make up for weaknesses. Educators may try special teaching methods, make changes to the classroom, or use technologies that can assist your child's learning needs. Some children also get help from tutors or speech or language therapists. A child with a learning disability may struggle with low self-esteem, frustration, and other problems. Mental health professionals can help your child understand these feelings, develop coping tools, and build healthy relationships. If your child has another condition such as ADHD, he or she will need treatment for that condition as well. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Leg Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/leginjuriesanddisorders.html,"Leg injuries and leg disorders can affect the whole leg or just one part. Read about common leg injuries such as sprains, strains, and fractures."," Your legs are made up of bones, blood vessels, muscles, and other connective tissue. They are important for motion and standing. Playing sports, running, falling, or having an accident can damage your legs. Common leg injuries include sprains and strains , joint dislocations , and fractures (broken bones). These injuries can affect the entire leg, or just the foot , ankle , knee , or hip . Certain diseases also lead to leg problems. For example, knee osteoarthritis, common in older people, can cause pain and limited motion. Problems in your veins in your legs can lead to varicose veins or deep vein thrombosis ."
Legionnaires' Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/legionnairesdisease.html,Legionnaires' Disease (Legionella Pneumonia) is caused by bacteria. You get it by breathing in mist from water that contains the bacteria. Learn more.," Legionnaires' disease is a type of pneumonia caused by bacteria. You usually get it by breathing in mist from water that contains the bacteria. The mist may come from hot tubs, showers, or air-conditioning units for large buildings. The bacteria don't spread from person to person. Symptoms of Legionnaires' disease include high fever, chills, a cough, and sometimes muscle aches and headaches. Other types of pneumonia have similar symptoms. You will probably need a chest x-ray to diagnose the pneumonia. Lab tests can detect the specific bacteria that cause Legionnaires' disease. Most people exposed to the bacteria do not become sick. You are more likely to get sick if you Are older than 50 Smoke Have a chronic lung disease Have a weak immune system Legionnaires' disease is serious and can be life-threatening. However, most people recover with antibiotic treatment. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Leishmaniasis,https://medlineplus.gov/leishmaniasis.html,"Leishmaniasis or leishmania, also known as Kala-azar is a parasitic disease spread by the bite of infected sand flies."," Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease spread by the bite of infected sand flies. There are several different forms of leishmaniasis. The most common are cutaneous and visceral. The cutaneous type causes skin sores. The visceral type affects internal organs such as the spleen, liver, and bone marrow. People with this form usually have fever, weight loss, and an enlarged spleen and liver. Leishmaniasis is found in parts of about 88 countries. Most of these countries are in the tropics and subtropics. It is possible but very unlikely that you would get this disease in the United States. But you should be aware of it if you are traveling to the Middle East or parts of Central America, South America, Asia, Africa or southern Europe. Treatment is with medicines that contain antimony, a type of metal, or with strong antibiotics. The best way to prevent the disease is to protect yourself from sand fly bites: Stay indoors from dusk to dawn, when sand flies are the most active Wear long pants and long-sleeved shirts when outside Use insect repellent and bed nets as needed Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Leukemia,https://medlineplus.gov/leukemia.html,"Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. There are two types of Leukemias, acute and chronic. Learn about the differences and treatments available."," What is leukemia? Leukemia is a term for cancers of the blood cells. Leukemia starts in blood-forming tissues such as the bone marrow. Your bone marrow makes the cells which will develop into white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. Each type of cell has a different job: White blood cells help your body fight infection Red blood cells deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs Platelets help form clots to stop bleeding When you have leukemia, your bone marrow makes large numbers of abnormal cells. This problem most often happens with white blood cells. These abnormal cells build up in your bone marrow and blood. They crowd out the healthy blood cells and make it hard for your cells and blood to do their work. What are the types of leukemia? There are different types of leukemia. Which type of leukemia you have depends on the type of blood cell that becomes cancer and whether it grows quickly or slowly. The type of blood cell could be Lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell Myeloid cells, immature cells that become white blood cells, red blood cells, or platelets The different types can grow quickly or slowly: Acute leukemia is fast growing. It usually gets worse quickly if it's not treated. Chronic leukemia is slow growing. It usually gets worse over a longer period of time. The main types of leukemia are Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) , which is the most common type of cancer in children. It can also affect adults. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) , which is more common in older adults but can also affect children Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) , which is one of the most common types of leukemia in adults. It often occurs during or after middle age. Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) , which usually occurs in adults during or after middle age What causes leukemia? Leukemia happens when there are changes in the genetic material (DNA) in bone marrow cells. The cause of these genetic changes is unknown. Who is at risk for leukemia? For the specific types, there are different factors which can raise your risk of getting that type. Overall, your risk of leukemia goes up as you age. It is most common over age 60. What are the symptoms of leukemia? Some of the symptoms of leukemia may include Feeling tired Fever or night sweats Easy bruising or bleeding Weight loss or loss of appetite Petechiae, which are tiny red dots under the skin. They are caused by bleeding. Other leukemia symptoms can be different from type to type. Chromic leukemia may not cause symptoms at first. How is leukemia diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose leukemia: A physical exam A medical history Blood tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC) Bone marrow tests . There are two main types - bone marrow aspiration and bone marrow biopsy. Both tests involve removing a sample of bone marrow and bone. The samples are sent to a lab for testing. Genetic tests to look for gene and chromosome changes Once the provider makes a diagnosis, there may be additional tests to see whether the cancer has spread. These include imaging tests and a lumbar puncture, which is a procedure to collect and test cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). What are the treatments for leukemia? The treatments for leukemia depend on which type you have, how severe the leukemia is, your age, your overall health, and other factors. Some possible treatments might include Chemotherapy Radiation therapy Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Leukodystrophies,https://medlineplus.gov/leukodystrophies.html,Leukodystrophies are rare diseases that affect the cells of the brain and are often genetic. Find more information on these progressive diseases.," The leukodystrophies are rare diseases that affect the cells of the brain. Specifically, the diseases affect the myelin sheath, the material that surrounds and protects nerve cells. Damage to this sheath slows down or blocks messages between the brain and the rest of the body. This leads to problems with Movement Speaking Vision Hearing Mental and physical development Most of the leukodystrophies are genetic . They usually appear during infancy or childhood. They can be hard to detect early because children seem healthy at first. However, symptoms gradually get worse over time. There are no cures for any of the leukodystrophies. Medicines, speech therapy and physical therapy might help with symptoms. Researchers are testing bone marrow transplantation as a treatment for some of the leukodystrophies. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Lewy Body Dementia,https://medlineplus.gov/lewybodydementia.html,"Lewy body dementia (LBD) is one common cause of dementia. In LBD, protein deposits build up in the brain. Read about the symptoms and what can help."," What is Lewy body dementia (LBD)? Lewy body dementia (LBD) is one of the most common types of dementia in older adults. Dementia is a loss of mental functions that is severe enough to affect your daily life and activities. These functions include Memory Language skills Visual perception (your ability to make sense of what you see) Problem solving Trouble with everyday tasks The ability to focus and pay attention What are the types of Lewy body dementia (LBD)? There are two types of LBD: dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia. Both types cause the same changes in the brain. And, over time, they can cause similar symptoms. The main difference is in when the cognitive (thinking) and movement symptoms start. Dementia with Lewy bodies causes problems with thinking ability that seem similar to Alzheimer's disease . Later, it also causes other symptoms, such as movement symptoms, visual hallucinations, and certain sleep disorders . It also causes more trouble with mental activities than with memory. Parkinson's disease dementia starts as a movement disorder. It first causes the symptoms of Parkinson's disease : slowed movement, muscle stiffness, tremor, and a shuffling walk. Later on, it causes dementia. What causes Lewy body dementia (LBD)? LBD happens when Lewy bodies build up in parts of the brain that control memory, thinking, and movement. Lewy bodies are abnormal deposits of a protein called alpha-synuclein. Researchers don't know exactly why these deposits form. But they do know that other diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, also involve a build-up of that protein. Who is at risk for Lewy body dementia (LBD)? The biggest risk factor for LBD is age; most people who get it are over age 50. People who have a family history of LBD are also at higher risk. What are the symptoms of Lewy body dementia (LBD)? LBD is a progressive disease. This means that the symptoms start slowly and get worse over time. The most common symptoms include changes in cognition, movement, sleep, and behavior: Dementia , which is a loss of mental functions that is severe enough to affect your daily life and activities Changes in concentration, attention, alertness, and wakefulness. These changes usually happen from day to day. But sometimes they can also happen throughout the same day. Visual hallucinations , which means seeing things that are not there Problems with movement and posture , including slowness of movement, difficulty walking, and muscle stiffness. These are called parkinsonian motor symptoms. REM sleep behavior disorder , a condition in which a person seems to act out dreams. It may include vivid dreaming, talking in one's sleep, violent movements, or falling out of bed. This may be the earliest symptom of LBD in some people. It can appear several years before any other LBD symptoms. Changes in behavior and mood , such as depression , anxiety , and apathy (a lack of interest in normal daily activities or events) In the early stages of LBD, symptoms can be mild, and people can function fairly normally. As the disease gets worse, people with LBD need more help due to problems with thinking and movement. In the later stages of the disease, they often cannot care for themselves. How is Lewy body dementia (LBD) diagnosed? There isn't one test that can diagnose LBD. It is important to see an experienced doctor to get a diagnosis. This would usually be specialist such as a neurologist. The doctor will Do a medical history, including taking a detailed account of the symptoms. The doctor will talk to both the patient and caregivers. Do physical and neurological exams Do tests to rule out other conditions that could cause similar symptoms. These could include blood tests and brain imaging tests . Do neuropsychological tests to evaluate memory and other cognitive functions LBD can be hard to diagnose, because Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease cause similar symptoms. Scientists think that Lewy body disease might be related to these diseases, or that they sometimes happen together. It's also important to know which type of LBD a person has, so the doctor can treat that type's particular symptoms. It also helps the doctor understand how the disease will affect the person over time. The doctor makes a diagnosis based on when certain symptoms start: If cognitive symptoms start within a year of movement problems, the diagnosis is dementia with Lewy bodies If cognitive problems start more than a year after the movement problems, the diagnosis is Parkinson's disease dementia What are the treatments for Lewy body dementia (LBD)? There is no cure for LBD, but treatments can help with the symptoms: Medicines may help with some of the cognitive, movement, and psychiatric symptoms Physical therapy can help with movement problems Occupational therapy may help find ways to more easily do everyday activities Speech therapy may help with swallowing difficulties and trouble speaking loudly and clearly Mental health counseling can help people with LBD and their families learn how to manage difficult emotions and behaviors. It can also help them plan for the future. Music or art therapy may reduce anxiety and improve well-being Support groups can also be helpful for people with LBD and their caregivers. Support groups can give emotional and social support. They are also a place where people can share tips about how to deal with day-to-day challenges. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
LGBTQ+ Health,https://medlineplus.gov/lgbtqhealth.html,"The LGBTQ+ community can experience health disparities and discrimination. Learn about gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender health issues.", Members of the LGBTQ+ community include people who are L esbian G ay B isexual T ransgender Q ueer or Q uestioning Elsewhere on the gender and sexuality spectrum or allies to the community On this page you'll find information about health issues that are specific to the LGBTQ+ community.
Limb Loss,https://medlineplus.gov/limbloss.html,"Limb loss and amputations have different causes including birth defects, cancer and injuries. Physical therapy and counseling may help with recovery."," People can lose all or part of an arm or leg for a number of reasons. Common ones include Problems with blood circulation. These may be the result of atherosclerosis or diabetes. Severe cases may result in amputation. Injuries, including from traffic accidents and military combat Cancer Birth defects Some amputees have phantom pain, which is the feeling of pain in the missing limb. Other physical problems include surgical complications and skin problems, if you wear an artificial limb. Many amputees use an artificial limb . Learning how to use it takes time. Physical therapy can help you adapt. Recovery from the loss of a limb can be hard. Sadness, anger, and frustration are common. If you are having a tough time, talk to your doctor. Treatment with medicine or counseling can help."
Lipid Metabolism Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/lipidmetabolismdisorders.html,"Lipids include fats, oils, and cholesterol. Disorders like Gaucher disease and Tay-Sachs cause problems with how your body uses lipids. Read more."," Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat. Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your digestive system (enzymes) break the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body tissues. If you have a metabolic disorder , something goes wrong with this process. Lipid metabolism disorders, such as Gaucher disease and Tay-Sachs disease , involve lipids. Lipids are fats or fat-like substances. They include oils, fatty acids, waxes, and cholesterol. If you have one of these disorders, you may not have enough enzymes to break down lipids. Or the enzymes may not work properly and your body can't convert the fats into energy. They cause a harmful amount of lipids to build up in your body. Over time, that can damage your cells and tissues, especially in the brain, peripheral nervous system, liver, spleen, and bone marrow. Many of these disorders can be very serious, or sometimes even fatal. These disorders are inherited. Newborn babies get screened for some of them, using blood tests. If there is a family history of one of these disorders, parents can get genetic testing to see whether they carry the gene. Other genetic tests can tell whether the fetus has the disorder or carries the gene for the disorder. Enzyme replacement therapies can help with a few of these disorders. For others, there is no treatment. Medicines, blood transfusions, and other procedures may help with complications."
Listeria Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/listeriainfections.html,Listeria infections are caused by bacteria found in raw and processed foods. Find a list of symptoms and treatments that can help reduce your risk.," Listeriosis is a foodborne illness caused by Listeria monocytogenes, bacteria found in soil and water. It can be in a variety of raw foods as well as in processed foods and foods made from unpasteurized milk. Listeria is unlike many other germs because it can grow even in the cold temperature of the refrigerator. Symptoms include fever and chills, headache, upset stomach and vomiting. Treatment is with antibiotics. Anyone can get the illness. But it is most likely to affect pregnant women and unborn babies, older adults, and people with weak immune systems. To reduce your risk Use precooked and ready-to-eat foods as soon as you can Avoid raw milk and raw milk products Heat ready-to-eat foods and leftovers until they are steaming hot Wash fresh fruits and vegetables Avoid rare meat and refrigerated smoked seafood Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Liver Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/livercancer.html,"The most common form of liver cancer in adults is hepatocellular carcinoma. Learn about diagnosis, treatment and taking part in research studies."," Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest food, store energy, and remove poisons. Primary liver cancer starts in the liver. Metastatic liver cancer starts somewhere else and spreads to your liver. Risk factors for primary liver cancer include Having hepatitis B or C Heavy alcohol use Having cirrhosis , or scarring of the liver Having hemochromatosis , an iron storage disease Obesity and diabetes Symptoms can include a lump or pain on the right side of your abdomen and yellowing of the skin. However, you may not have symptoms until the cancer is advanced. This makes it harder to treat. Doctors use tests that examine the liver and the blood to diagnose liver cancer. Treatment options include surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, or liver transplantation . NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Liver Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/liverdiseases.html,"Get the facts about liver diseases, such as hepatitis, cancer, and cirrhosis. Know your risk and what you can do to prevent liver problems."," Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest food, store energy, and remove poisons. There are many kinds of liver diseases: Diseases caused by viruses, such as hepatitis A , hepatitis B , and hepatitis C Diseases caused by drugs, poisons, or too much alcohol. Examples include fatty liver disease and cirrhosis . Liver cancer Inherited diseases, such as hemochromatosis and Wilson disease Symptoms of liver disease can vary, but they often include swelling of the abdomen and legs, bruising easily, changes in the color of your stool and urine, and jaundice , or yellowing of the skin and eyes. Sometimes there are no symptoms. Tests such as imaging tests and liver function tests can check for liver damage and help to diagnose liver diseases."
Liver Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/livertransplantation.html,"Understand the facts about liver transplantation. Read about risks, outlook and the process for getting a liver transplant."," Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest food, store energy, and remove poisons. You cannot live without a liver that works. If your liver fails, your doctor may put you on a waiting list for a liver transplant. Doctors do liver transplants when other treatment cannot keep a damaged liver working. During a liver transplantation, the surgeon removes the diseased liver and replaces it with a healthy one. Most transplant livers come from a donor who has died. Sometimes there is a living donor. This is when a healthy person donates part of his or her liver for a specific patient. The most common reason for a transplant in adults is cirrhosis . This is scarring of the liver, caused by injury or long-term disease. The most common reason in children is biliary atresia, a disease of the bile ducts . If you have a transplant, you must take drugs the rest of your life to help keep your body from rejecting the new liver. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Living with HIV/AIDS,https://medlineplus.gov/livingwithhivaids.html,"Infection with HIV is serious, but the outlook is improving. Discover the many things you can do to help ensure you have a longer, healthier life. "," What are HIV and AIDS? HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by destroying a type of white blood cell that helps your body fight infection. AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final stage of infection with HIV. Not everyone with HIV develops AIDS. Are there treatments for HIV/AIDS? There is no cure, but there are many medicines to treat both HIV infection and the infections and cancers that come with it. The medicines allow people with HIV to have long, healthy lives. How can I live a healthier life with HIV? IIf you have HIV, you can help yourself by Getting medical care as soon as you find out that you have HIV. You should find a health care provider who has experience in treating HIV/AIDS. Making sure to take your medicines regularly Keeping up with your regular medical and dental care Managing stress and getting support, such as from support groups, therapists, and social service organizations Learning as much as you can about HIV/AIDS and its treatments Trying to live a healthy lifestyle, including Eating healthy foods.This can give your body the energy it needs to fight HIV and other infections. It can also help you manage HIV symptoms and medicine side effects. It may also improve absorption of your HIV medicines. Exercising regularly. This can strengthen your body and immune system. It may also reduce the risk of depression . Getting enough sleep . Sleep is important for your physical strength and mental health. Not smoking. People with HIV who smoke have a higher risk of developing conditions such as certain cancers and infections. Smoking can also interfere with your medicines. It is also important to reduce the risk of spreading HIV to other people. You should tell your sex partners that you have HIV and always use latex condoms. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms."
Low Blood Pressure,https://medlineplus.gov/lowbloodpressure.html,"Some people have low blood pressure (hypotension). It is only a problem if it causes dizziness, fainting, or shock. Learn about what can cause it."," You've probably heard that high blood pressure is a problem. Sometimes blood pressure that is too low can also cause problems. Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your arteries. Each time your heart beats, it pumps out blood into the arteries. Your blood pressure is highest when your heart beats, pumping the blood. This is called systolic pressure. When your heart is at rest, between beats, your blood pressure falls. This is the diastolic pressure. Your blood pressure reading uses these two numbers. Usually they're written one above or before the other, such as 120/80. If your blood pressure reading is 90/60 or lower, you have low blood pressure. Some people have low blood pressure all the time. They have no symptoms and their low readings are normal for them. In other people, blood pressure drops below normal because of a medical condition or certain medicines. Some people may have symptoms of low blood pressure when standing up too quickly. Low blood pressure is a problem only if it causes dizziness , fainting or in extreme cases, shock . NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Lung Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/lungcancer.html,Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world. Common symptoms of lung cancer include: constant chest pain and coughing blood. Read more.," What is lung cancer? Lung cancer is cancer that forms in tissues of the lung, usually in the cells that line the air passages. It is the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women. There are two main types: small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. These two types grow differently and are treated differently. Non-small cell lung cancer is the more common type. Who is at risk for lung cancer? Lung cancer can affect anyone, but there are certain factors that raise your risk of getting it: Smoking . This is the most important risk factor for lung cancer. Tobacco smoking causes about 9 out of 10 cases of lung cancer in men and about 8 out of 10 cases of lung cancer in women. The earlier in life you start smoking, the longer you smoke, and the more cigarettes you smoke per day, the greater your risk of lung cancer. The risk is also greater if you smoke a lot and drink alcohol every day or take beta carotene supplements. If you have quit smoking, your risk will be lower than if you had kept smoking. But you will still have a higher risk than people who never smoked. Secondhand smoke , which is the combination of smoke that comes from a cigarette and smoke breathed out by a smoker. When you inhale it, you are exposed to the same cancer-causing agents as smokers, although in smaller amounts. Family history of lung cancer Being exposed to asbestos , arsenic , chromium, beryllium, nickel, soot, or tar in the workplace Being exposed to radiation , such as from Radiation therapy to the breast or chest Radon in the home or workplace Certain imaging tests such as CT scans HIV infection Air pollution What are the symptoms of lung cancer? Sometimes lung cancer does not cause any signs or symptoms. It may be found during a chest x-ray done for another condition. If you do have symptoms, they may include Chest pain or discomfort A cough that doesn't go away or gets worse over time Trouble breathing Wheezing Blood in sputum (mucus coughed up from the lungs) Hoarseness Loss of appetite Weight loss for no known reason Fatigue Trouble swallowing Swelling in the face and/or veins in the neck How is lung cancer diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history and family history Will do a physical exam Will probably do imaging tests, such as a chest x-ray or chest CT scan May do lab tests, including tests of your blood and sputum May do a biopsy of the lung If you do have lung cancer, your provider will do other tests to find out how far it has spread through the lungs, lymph nodes, and the rest of the body. This is called staging. Knowing the type and stage of lung cancer you have helps your provider decide what kind of treatment you need. What are the treatments for lung cancer? For most patients with lung cancer, current treatments do not cure the cancer. Your treatment will depend on which type of lung cancer you have, how far it has spread, your overall health, and other factors. You may get more than one type of treatment. The treatments for small cell lung cancer include Surgery Chemotherapy Radiation therapy Immunotherapy Laser therapy, which uses a laser beam to kill cancer cells Endoscopic stent placement. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument used to look at tissues inside the body. It may be used to put in a device called a stent. The stent helps to open an airway that has been blocked by abnormal tissue. The treatments for non-small cell lung cancer include Surgery Radiation therapy Chemotherapy Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells Immunotherapy Laser therapy Photodynamic therapy (PDT), which uses a medicine and a certain type of laser light to kill cancer cells Cryosurgery, which uses an instrument to freeze and destroy abnormal tissue Electrocautery, a treatment that uses a probe or needle heated by an electric current to destroy abnormal tissue Can lung cancer be prevented? Avoiding the risk factors may help to prevent lung cancer: Quitting smoking . If you don't smoke, don't start. Lower your exposure to hazardous substances at work Lower your exposure to radon. Radon tests can show whether your home has high levels of radon. You can buy a test kit yourself or hire a professional to do the test. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Lung Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/lungdiseases.html,Lung diseases are disorders or infections that affect the lungs and cause breathing problems. Some can lead to respiratory failure. Find out more.," When you breathe, your lungs take in oxygen from the air and deliver it to the bloodstream. The cells in your body need oxygen to work and grow. During a normal day, you breathe nearly 25,000 times. People with lung disease have difficulty breathing. Millions of people in the U.S. have lung disease. If all types of lung disease are lumped together, it is the number three killer in the United States. The term lung disease refers to many disorders affecting the lungs, such as asthma , COPD , infections like influenza , pneumonia and tuberculosis , lung cancer , and many other breathing problems . Some lung diseases can lead to respiratory failure . Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Lung Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/lungtransplantation.html,"A lung transplant removes a diseased lung and replaces it with a healthy one. Discover what to expect before, after, and during a lung transplant. "," A lung transplant removes a person's diseased lung and replaces it with a healthy one. The healthy lung comes from a donor who has died. Some people get one lung during a transplant. Other people get two. Lung transplants are used for people who are likely to die from lung disease within 1 to 2 years. Their conditions are so severe that other treatments, such as medicines or breathing devices, no longer work. Lung transplants most often are used to treat people who have severe COPD Cystic fibrosis Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency Pulmonary hypertension Complications of lung transplantation include rejection of the transplanted lung and infection. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Lupus,https://medlineplus.gov/lupus.html,Lupus (or SLE) is a complex disease. But the good news is you can get help and fight lupus. Learn more about lupus symptoms and how to cope.," What is lupus? Lupus is an autoimmune disease . This means that your immune system attacks healthy cells and tissues by mistake. This can damage many parts of the body, including the joints, skin, kidneys, heart, lungs, blood vessels, and brain. There are several kinds of lupus Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is the most common type. It can be mild or severe and can affect many parts of the body. Discoid lupus causes a red rash that doesn't go away Subacute cutaneous lupus causes sores after being out in the sun Drug-induced lupus is caused by certain medicines. It usually goes away when you stop taking the medicine. Neonatal lupus, which is rare, affects newborns. It is probably caused by certain antibodies from the mother. What causes lupus? The cause of lupus is unknown. Who is at risk for lupus? Anyone can get lupus, but women are most at risk. Lupus is two to three times more common in African American women than in white women. It's also more common in Hispanic, Asian, and Native American women. African American and Hispanic women are more likely to have severe forms of lupus. What are the symptoms of lupus? Lupus can have many symptoms, and they differ from person to person. Some of the more common ones are Pain or swelling in joints Muscle pain Fever with no known cause Red rashes , most often on the face (also called the ""butterfly rash"") Chest pain when taking a deep breath Hair loss Pale or purple fingers or toes Sensitivity to the sun Swelling in legs or around eyes Mouth ulcers Swollen glands Feeling very tired Symptoms may come and go. When you are having symptoms, it is called a flare. Flares can range from mild to severe. New symptoms may appear at any time. How is lupus diagnosed? There is no specific test for lupus, and it's often mistaken for other diseases. So it may take months or years for a doctor to diagnose it. Your doctor may use many tools to make a diagnosis: Medical history Complete exam Blood tests Skin biopsy (looking at skin samples under a microscope) Kidney biopsy (looking at tissue from your kidney under a microscope) What are the treatments for lupus? There is no cure for lupus, but medicines and lifestyle changes can help control it. People with lupus often need to see different doctors. You will have a primary care doctor and a rheumatologist (a doctor who specializes in the diseases of joints and muscles). Which other specialists you see depends on how lupus affects your body. For example, if lupus damages your heart or blood vessels, you would see a cardiologist. Your primary care doctor should coordinate care between your different health care providers and treat other problems as they come up. Your doctor will develop a treatment plan to fit your needs. You and your doctor should review the plan often to be sure it is working. You should report new symptoms to your doctor right away so that your treatment plan can be changed if needed. The goals of the treatment plan are to Prevent flares Treat flares when they occur Reduce organ damage and other problems Treatments may include drugs to Reduce swelling and pain Prevent or reduce flares Help the immune system Reduce or prevent damage to joints Balance the hormones Besides taking medicines for lupus, you may need to take medicines for problems that are related to lupus such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or infection. Alternative treatments are those that are not part of standard treatment. At this time, no research shows that alternative medicine can treat lupus. Some alternative or complementary approaches may help you cope or reduce some of the stress associated with living with a chronic illness. You should talk to your doctor before trying any alternative treatments. How can I cope with lupus? It is important to take an active role in your treatment. It helps to learn more about lupus - being able to spot the warning signs of a flare can help you prevent the flare or make the symptoms less severe. It is also important to find ways to cope with the stress of having lupus. Exercising and finding ways to relax may make it easier for you to cope. A good support system can also help. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Lyme Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/lymedisease.html,Lyme disease is an infection you get from tick bites. The first symptom is usually a rash. Learn about Lyme disease symptoms and treatment.," What is Lyme disease? Lyme disease is a bacterial infection you get from the bite of an infected tick . At first, Lyme disease usually causes symptoms such as a rash , fever , headache , and fatigue . But if it is not treated early, the infection can spread to your joints, heart, and nervous system. Prompt treatment can help you recover quickly. What causes Lyme disease? Lyme disease is caused by bacteria. In the United States, this is usually a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. It spreads to humans through the bite of an infected tick. The ticks that spread it are blacklegged ticks (or deer ticks). They are usually found in the Northeast Mid-Atlantic Upper Midwest Pacific coast, especially northern California These ticks can attach to any part your body. But they are often found in hard-to-see areas such as your groin, armpits, and scalp. Usually the tick must be attached to you for 36 to 48 hours or more to spread the bacterium to you. Who is at risk for Lyme disease? Anyone can get a tick bite. But people who spend lots of time outdoors in wooded, grassy areas are at a higher risk. This includes campers, hikers, and people who work in gardens and parks. Most tick bites happen in the summer months when ticks are most active and people spend more time outdoors. But you can get bitten in the warmer months of early fall, or even late winter if temperatures are unusually high. And if there is a mild winter, ticks may come out earlier than usual. What are the symptoms of Lyme disease? Early symptoms of Lyme disease start between 3 to 30 days after an infected tick bites you. The symptoms can include A red rash called erythema migrans (EM). Most people with Lyme disease get this rash. It gets bigger over several days and may feel warm. It is usually not painful or itchy. As it starts to get better, parts of it may fade. Sometimes this makes the rash look like a ""bull's-eye."" Fever Chills Headache Fatigue Muscle and joint aches Swollen lymph nodes If the infection is not treated, it can spread to your joints, heart, and nervous system. The symptoms may include Severe headaches and neck stiffness Additional EM rashes on other areas of your body Facial palsy, which is a weakness in your facial muscles. It can cause drooping on one or both sides of your face. Arthritis with severe joint pain and swelling, especially in your knees and other large joints Pain that comes and goes in your tendons, muscles, joints, and bones Heart palpitations, which are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, pounding, or beating too hard or too fast An irregular heart beat (Lyme carditis) Episodes of dizziness or shortness of breath Inflammation of the brain and spinal cord Nerve pain Shooting pains, numbness, or tingling in the hands or feet How is Lyme disease diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will consider Your symptoms How likely it is that you were exposed to infected blacklegged ticks The possibility that other illnesses may cause similar symptoms Results of any lab tests Most Lyme disease tests check for antibodies made by the body in response to infection. These antibodies can take several weeks to develop. If you are tested right away, it may not show that you have Lyme disease, even if you have it. So you may need to have another test later. What are the treatments for Lyme disease? Lyme disease is treated with antibiotics . The earlier you are treated, the better; it gives you the best chance of fully recovering quickly. After treatment, some patients may still have pain, fatigue, or difficulty thinking that lasts more than 6 months. This is called post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome (PTLDS). Researchers don't know why some people have PTLDS. There is no proven treatment for PTLDS; long-term antibiotics have not been shown to help. However, there are ways to help with the symptoms of PTLDS. If you have been treated for Lyme disease and still feel unwell, contact your health care provider about how to manage your symptoms. Most people do get better with time. But it can take several months before you feel all better. Can Lyme disease be prevented? To prevent Lyme disease, you should lower your risk of getting a tick bite: Avoid areas where ticks live, such as grassy, brushy, or wooded areas. If you are hiking, walk in the center of the trail to avoid brush and grass. Use an insect repellent with DEET Treat your clothing and gear with a repellant containing 0.5% permethrin Wear light-colored protective clothing, so you can easily see any ticks that get on you Wear a long-sleeve shirt and long pants. Also tuck your shirt into your pants and your pant legs into your socks. Check yourself, your children, and your pets daily for ticks. Carefully remove any ticks you find. Take a shower and wash and dry your clothes at high temperatures after being outdoors Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Lymphatic Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/lymphaticdiseases.html,"Lymphatic diseases can affect your lymph, lymph vessels, or lymph nodes. Lymphatic system problems include lymphedema and swollen glands. Learn more."," The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs. It is made up of Lymph - a fluid that contains white blood cells that defend against germs Lymph vessels - vessels that carry lymph throughout your body. They are different from blood vessels. Lymph nodes - glands found throughout the lymph vessels. Along with your spleen , these nodes are where white blood cells fight infection. Your bone marrow and thymus produce the cells in lymph. They are part of the system, too. The lymphatic system clears away infection and keeps your body fluids in balance. If it's not working properly, fluid builds in your tissues and causes swelling, called lymphedema . Other lymphatic system problems can include infections, blockage, and cancer ."
Lymphedema,https://medlineplus.gov/lymphedema.html,Lymphedema is the name of a type of swelling that happens when lymph builds up in your body's soft tissue. Discover causes and treatment options.," Lymphedema is the name of a type of swelling . It happens when lymph builds up in your body's soft tissues. Lymph is a fluid that contains white blood cells that defend against germs. It can build up when the lymph system is damaged or blocked. It usually happens in the arms or legs. Causes of lymphedema include Infection Cancer Scar tissue from radiation therapy or surgical removal of lymph nodes Inherited conditions in which lymph nodes or vessels are absent or abnormal Treatment can help control symptoms. It includes exercise, compression devices, skin care, and massage. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Lymphoma,https://medlineplus.gov/lymphoma.html,Lymphoma is a cancer affecting the immune system. Hodgkins Lymphoma and Non Hodgkins Lymphoma are types of lymphoma. Learn about symptoms and treatments.," Lymphoma is a cancer of a part of the immune system called the lymph system. There are many types of lymphoma. One type is Hodgkin disease . The rest are called non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Non-Hodgkin lymphomas begin when a type of white blood cell, called a T cell or B cell, becomes abnormal. The cell divides again and again, making more and more abnormal cells. These abnormal cells can spread to almost any other part of the body. Most of the time, doctors don't know why a person gets non-Hodgkin lymphoma. You are at increased risk if you have a weakened immune system or have certain types of infections. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma can cause many symptoms, such as Swollen, painless lymph nodes in the neck, armpits or groin Unexplained weight loss Fever Soaking night sweats Coughing, trouble breathing or chest pain Weakness and tiredness that don't go away Pain, swelling or a feeling of fullness in the abdomen Your doctor will diagnose lymphoma with a physical exam, blood tests, a chest x-ray, and a biopsy. Treatments include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, biological therapy, or therapy to remove proteins from the blood. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. If you don't have symptoms, you may not need treatment right away. This is called watchful waiting. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Macular Degeneration,https://medlineplus.gov/maculardegeneration.html,"Macular degeneration, or age-related macular degeneration (AMD), causes vision loss in older adults. Learn about the types and what can help."," Macular degeneration, or age-related macular degeneration (AMD), is a leading cause of vision loss in Americans 60 and older. It is a disease that destroys your sharp, central vision. You need central vision to see objects clearly and to do tasks such as reading and driving. AMD affects the macula, the part of the eye that allows you to see fine detail. It does not hurt, but it causes cells in the macula to die. There are two types: wet and dry. Wet AMD happens when abnormal blood vessels grow under the macula. These new blood vessels often leak blood and fluid. Wet AMD damages the macula quickly. Blurred vision is a common early symptom. Dry AMD happens when the light-sensitive cells in the macula slowly break down. Your gradually lose your central vision. A common early symptom is that straight lines appear crooked. Regular comprehensive eye exams can detect macular degeneration before the disease causes vision loss. Treatment can slow vision loss. It does not restore vision. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Malabsorption Syndromes,https://medlineplus.gov/malabsorptionsyndromes.html,"If you have a malabsorption syndrome, your small intestine cannot absorb nutrients from foods. Learn more about different syndromes and symptoms."," Your small intestine does most of the digesting of the foods you eat. If you have a malabsorption syndrome, your small intestine cannot absorb nutrients from foods. Causes of malabsorption syndromes include Celiac disease Lactose intolerance Short bowel syndrome. This happens after surgery to remove half or more of the small intestine. You might need the surgery if you have a problem with the small intestine from a disease, injury, or birth defect. Whipple disease, a rare bacterial infection Genetic diseases Certain medicines Symptoms of different malabsorption syndromes can vary. They often include chronic diarrhea, abnormal stools, weight loss, and gas. Your doctor may use lab, imaging, or other tests to make a diagnosis. Treatment of malabsorption syndromes depends on the cause."
Malaria,https://medlineplus.gov/malaria.html,Malaria is a disease caused by a parasite transmitted by mosquitoes. It is a major cause of death worldwide. Find out about prevention and treatment.," Malaria is a serious disease caused by a parasite. You get it when an infected mosquito bites you. Malaria is a major cause of death worldwide, but it is almost wiped out in the United States. The disease is mostly a problem in developing countries with warm climates. If you travel to these countries, you are at risk. There are four different types of malaria caused by four related parasites. The most deadly type occurs in Africa south of the Sahara Desert. Malaria symptoms include chills, flu-like symptoms, fever, vomiting, diarrhea, and jaundice. A blood test can diagnose it. It can be life-threatening. However, you can treat malaria with drugs. The type of drug depends on which kind of malaria you have and where you were infected. Malaria can be prevented. When traveling to areas where malaria is found See your doctor for medicines that protect you Wear insect repellent with DEET Cover up Sleep under mosquito netting Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Male Breast Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/malebreastcancer.html,"Did you know that men can get breast cancer? Although breast cancer is much more common in women, men can get it too. Learn more."," Although breast cancer is much more common in women, men can get it too. It happens most often to men between the ages of 60 and 70. Breast lumps usually aren't cancer. However, most men with breast cancer have lumps. Other breast symptoms can include Dimpled or puckered skin A red, scaly nipple or skin Fluid discharge Risk factors for male breast cancer include exposure to radiation, a family history of breast cancer, and having high estrogen levels, which can happen with diseases like cirrhosis or Klinefelter's syndrome . Treatment for male breast cancer is usually a mastectomy , which is surgery to remove the breast. Other treatments include radiation, chemotherapy and/or hormone therapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Male Infertility,https://medlineplus.gov/maleinfertility.html,Infertility is when a woman can't get pregnant after a year or keeps having miscarriages. Read about the causes of male infertility and treatments.," Infertility is a term doctors use if a man hasn't been able to get a woman pregnant after at least one year of trying. Causes of male infertility include Physical problems with the testicles Blockages in the ducts that carry sperm Hormone problems A history of high fevers or mumps Genetic disorders Lifestyle or environmental factors About a third of the time, infertility is because of a problem with the man. One third of the time, it is a problem with the woman . Sometimes no cause can be found. If you suspect you are infertile, see your doctor. There are tests that may tell if you have fertility problems. When it is possible to find the cause, treatments may include medicines, surgery, or assisted reproductive technology . Happily, many couples treated for infertility are able to have babies. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Malnutrition,https://medlineplus.gov/malnutrition.html,People suffer from hunger if they don't get enough food. Over time this can cause malnutrition. Some diseases can also cause malnutrition. Read more.," Food provides the energy and nutrients you need to be healthy. If you don't get enough nutrients -- including proteins , carbohydrates , fats , vitamins , and minerals - you may suffer from malnutrition. Causes of malnutrition include: Lack of specific nutrients in your diet. Even the lack of one vitamin can lead to malnutrition. An unbalanced diet Certain medical problems, such as malabsorption syndromes and cancers Symptoms may include fatigue, dizziness, and weight loss. Or, you may have no symptoms. To diagnose the cause of the problem, your doctor may do blood tests and a nutritional assessment. Treatment may include replacing the missing nutrients and treating the underlying cause."
Mammography,https://medlineplus.gov/mammography.html,A mammography exam (mammogram) is an x-ray of the breast and is used to detect breast diseases like cancer. Find out how it works and what to expect.," A mammogram is an x-ray picture of the breast. It can be used to check for breast cancer in women who have no signs or symptoms of the disease. It can also be used if you have a lump or other sign of breast cancer. Screening mammography is the type of mammogram that checks you when you have no symptoms. It can help reduce the number of deaths from breast cancer among women ages 40 to 70. But it can also have drawbacks. Mammograms can sometimes find something that looks abnormal but isn't cancer. This leads to further testing and can cause you anxiety. Sometimes mammograms can miss cancer when it is there. It also exposes you to radiation. You should talk to your doctor about the benefits and drawbacks of mammograms. Together, you can decide when to start and how often to have a mammogram. Mammograms are also recommended for younger women who have symptoms of breast cancer or who have a high risk of the disease. When you have a mammogram, you stand in front of an x-ray machine. The person who takes the x-rays places your breast between two plastic plates. The plates press your breast and make it flat. This may be uncomfortable, but it helps get a clear picture. You should get a written report of your mammogram results within 30 days. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Managed Care,https://medlineplus.gov/managedcare.html,Managed care plans are a type of health insurance. Plans that restrict your choices usually cost less. Flexible plans may cost more. Learn more.," Managed care plans are a type of health insurance . They have contracts with health care providers and medical facilities to provide care for members at reduced costs. These providers make up the plan's network. How much of your care the plan will pay for depends on the network's rules. Plans that restrict your choices usually cost you less. If you want a flexible plan, it will probably cost more. There are three types of managed care plans: Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO) usually only pay for care within the network. You choose a primary care doctor who coordinates most of your care. Preferred Provider Organizations (PPO) usually pay more if you get care within the network. They still pay part of the cost if you go outside the network. Point of Service (POS) plans let you choose between an HMO or a PPO each time you need care."
Marfan Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/marfansyndrome.html,Marfan syndrome is a disorder that affects connective tissue. Marfan syndrome can be mild to severe. Read about symptoms and outlook.," Marfan syndrome is a disorder that affects connective tissue. Connective tissues are proteins that support skin, bones, blood vessels, and other organs. One of these proteins is fibrillin. A problem with the fibrillin gene causes Marfan syndrome. Marfan syndrome can be mild to severe, and the symptoms can vary. People with Marfan syndrome are often very tall, thin, and loose jointed. Most people with Marfan syndrome have heart and blood vessel problems, such as a weakness in the aorta or heart valves that leak. They may also have problems with their bones, eyes, skin, nervous system, and lungs. There is no specific test for Marfan syndrome. Your doctor may use your medical history, family history, and a physical exam to diagnose it. Marfan syndrome has no cure, but treatments can help delay or prevent complications. Treatments include medicines, surgery, and other therapies. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Marijuana,https://medlineplus.gov/marijuana.html,Marijuana contains the mind-altering chemical THC. Some U.S. states approve the use of medical marijuana. Read about marijuana and its effects.," What is marijuana? Marijuana is a green, brown, or gray mix of dried, crumbled parts from the marijuana plant. The plant contains chemicals which act on your brain and can change your mood or consciousness. How do people use marijuana? There are many different ways that people use marijuana, including Rolling it up and smoking it like a cigarette or cigar Smoking it in a pipe Mixing it in food and eating it Brewing it as a tea Smoking oils from the plant (""dabbing"") Using electronic vaporizers (""vaping"") What are the effects of marijuana? Marijuana can cause both short-term and long-term effects. Short term: While you are high, you may experience Altered senses, such as seeing brighter colors Altered sense of time, such as minutes seeming like hours Changes in mood Problems with body movement Trouble with thinking, problem-solving, and memory Increased appetite Long term: In the long term, marijuana can cause health problems, such as Problems with brain development. People who started using marijuana as teenagers may have trouble with thinking, memory, and learning. Coughing and breathing problems, if you smoke marijuana frequently Problems with child development during and after pregnancy, if a woman smokes marijuana while pregnant Can you overdose on marijuana? It is possible to overdose on marijuana, if you take a very high dose. Symptoms of an overdose include anxiety , panic, and a rapid heartbeat. In rare cases, an overdose can cause paranoia and hallucinations. There are no reports of people dying from using just marijuana. Is marijuana addictive? After using marijuana for a while, it is possible to get addicted to it. You are more likely to become addicted if you use marijuana every day or you started using it when you were a teenager. If you are addicted, you will have a strong need to take the drug. You may also need to smoke more and more of it to get the same high. When you try to quit, you may have mild withdrawal symptoms such as Irritability Trouble sleeping Decreased appetite Anxiety Cravings What is medical marijuana? The marijuana plant has chemicals that can help with some health problems. More states are making it legal to use the plant as medicine for certain medical conditions. But there isn't enough research to show that the whole plant works to treat or cure these conditions. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the marijuana plant as a medicine. Marijuana is still illegal at the national level. However, there have been scientific studies of cannabinoids, the chemicals in marijuana. The two main cannabinoids that are of medical interest are THC and CBD. The FDA has approved two drugs that contain THC. These drugs treat nausea caused by chemotherapy and increase appetite in patients who have severe weight loss from AIDS . There is also a liquid drug that contains CBD. It treats two forms of severe childhood epilepsy . Scientists are doing more research with marijuana and its ingredients to treat many diseases and conditions. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Mastectomy,https://medlineplus.gov/mastectomy.html,A mastectomy is a surgery to remove a breast or part of a breast in order to treat breast cancer. A lumpectomy is done to remove a tumor. Read more.," A mastectomy is surgery to remove a breast or part of a breast. It is usually done to treat breast cancer . Types of breast surgery include Total (simple) mastectomy - removal of breast tissue and nipple Modified radical mastectomy - removal of the breast, most of the lymph nodes under the arm, and often the lining over the chest muscles Lumpectomy - surgery to remove the tumor and a small amount of normal tissue around it Which surgery you have depends on the stage of cancer, size of the tumor, size of the breast, and whether the lymph nodes are involved. Many women have breast reconstruction to rebuild the breast after a mastectomy. Sometimes mastectomy is done to prevent breast cancer. Only high-risk patients have this type of surgery. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Measles,https://medlineplus.gov/measles.html,"Measles or rubeola is an infectious disease caused by a virus. It spreads easily person to person, causes red blotchy rash along with other symptoms."," Measles is an infectious disease caused by a virus. It spreads easily from person to person. It causes a blotchy red rash. The rash often starts on the head and moves down the body. Other symptoms include Fever Cough Runny nose Conjunctivitis (pink eye) Feeling achy and run down Tiny white spots inside the mouth Sometimes measles can lead to serious problems. There is no treatment for measles, but the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine can prevent it. ""German measles"", also known as rubella , is a completely different illness. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Medicaid,https://medlineplus.gov/medicaid.html,Medicaid is government health insurance that helps low-income people in the U.S. pay their medical bills. Learn about services and eligibility.," Medicaid is government health insurance that helps many low-income people in the United States to pay their medical bills . The Federal government sets up general guidelines for the program, but each state has its own rules. Your state might require you to pay a part of the cost for some medical services. You have to meet certain requirements to get Medicaid help. These might involve Your age Whether you are pregnant, disabled, or blind Your income and resources Whether or not you are a U.S. citizen or, if not, what your immigration status is Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services"
Medical Device Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/medicaldevicesafety.html,"Medical devices can diagnose, cure, treat, or prevent some diseases. It is important to know how to use medical devices safely. Read more."," A medical device is any product used to diagnose, cure, or treat a condition, or to prevent disease. They range from small and simple, like a blood glucose meter, to large and complicated, like a ventilator. You might use one at home or at work, or you may need one in a hospital. To use medical devices safely Know how your device works. Keep instructions close by Understand and properly respond to device alarms Have a back-up plan and supplies in the event of an emergency Keep emergency numbers available and update them as needed Educate your family and caregivers about your device Food and Drug Administration"
Medical Ethics,https://medlineplus.gov/medicalethics.html,Most areas of healthcare have an ethical aspect. Learn about ethical issues in healthcare and bioethics.," The field of ethics studies principles of right and wrong. There is hardly an area in medicine that doesn't have an ethical aspect. For example, there are ethical issues relating to End of life care : Should a patient receive nutrition ? What about advance directives and resuscitation orders? Abortion : When does life begin? Is it ethical to terminate a pregnancy with a birth defect? Genetic and prenatal testing: What happens if you are a carrier of a defect? What if testing shows that your unborn baby has a defect? Birth control : Should it be available to minors? Is it ethical to harvest embryonic stem cells to treat diseases? Organ donation : Must a relative donate an organ to a sick relative? Your personal health information: who has access to your records ? Patient rights : Do you have the right to refuse treatment? When you talk with your doctor , is it ethical for her to withhold information from you or your family?"
Medicare,https://medlineplus.gov/medicare.html,"Medicare is the U.S. government's health insurance program for people age 65 and older. Medicare has four parts (A, B, C, and D). Read more."," Medicare is the U.S. government's health insurance program for people age 65 or older. Some people under age 65 can qualify for Medicare, too. They include those with disabilities, permanent kidney failure, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Medicare helps with the cost of health care. It does not cover all medical expenses or the cost of most long-term care. The program has four parts: Part A is hospital insurance Part B helps pay for medical services that Part A doesn't cover Part C is called Medicare Advantage. If you have Parts A and B, you can choose this option to receive all of your health care through a provider organization, like an HMO. Part D is prescription drug coverage. It helps pay for some medicines."
Medication Errors,https://medlineplus.gov/medicationerrors.html,"Medicines cure infection, prevent problems, and ease pain. Medicines can also cause harm if not used correctly. Learn about medication errors."," Medicines treat infectious diseases, prevent problems from chronic diseases, and ease pain. But medicines can also cause harmful reactions if not used correctly. Errors can happen in the hospital, at the health care provider's office, at the pharmacy, or at home. You can help prevent errors by Knowing your medicines. When you get a prescription, ask the name of the medicine and check to make sure that the pharmacy gave you the right medicine. Make sure that you understand how often you should take the medicine and how long you should take it. Keeping a list of medicines. Write down all of the medicines that you are taking, including the names of your medicines, how much you take, and when you take them. Make sure to include any over-the-counter medicines , vitamins , supplements , and herbs that you take. List the medicines that you are allergic to or that have caused you problems in the past. Take this list with you every time you see a health care provider. Reading medicine labels and following the directions. Don't just rely on your memory - read the medication label every time. Be especially careful when giving medicines to children . Asking questions. If you don't know the answers to these questions, ask your health care provider or pharmacist: Why am I taking this medicine? What are the common side effects? What should I do if I have side effects? When should I stop this medicine? Can I take this medicine with the other medicines and supplements on my list? Do I need to avoid certain foods or alcohol while taking this medicine? Food and Drug Administration"
Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/medicines.html,"You may take medicines every day or only once in a while. Either way, make sure your medicines are safe and will help you get better. Learn more. "," Medicines can treat diseases and improve your health. If you are like most people, you need to take medicine at some point in your life. You may need to take medicine every day, or you may only need to take medicine once in a while. Either way, you want to make sure that your medicines are safe, and that they will help you get better. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration is in charge of ensuring that your prescription and over-the-counter medicines are safe and effective. There are always risks to taking medicines. It is important to think about these risks before you take a medicine. Even safe medicines can cause unwanted side effects or interactions with food, alcohol, or other medicines you may be taking. Some medicines may not be safe during pregnancy . To reduce the risk of reactions and make sure that you get better, it is important for you to take your medicines correctly . You should also be careful when giving medicines to children , since they can be more vulnerable to the effects of medicines."
Medicines and Children,https://medlineplus.gov/medicinesandchildren.html,"Never guess how to give medicines to a child. When it comes to taking medicines, kids aren't just small adults. Learn how to follow the drug label. "," Children aren't just small adults. It is especially important to remember this when giving medicines to children. Giving a child the wrong dose or a medicine that is not for children can have serious side effects. The drug labels for prescription medicines have a section on ""Pediatric Use."" It says whether the medicine has been studied for its effects on children. It also tells you which age groups were studied. Some over-the-counter (OTC) medicines , like those that treat fever and pain, have been studied for effectiveness, safety, or dosing in children. But many other OTC medicines have not. It is important to read the labels carefully, to make sure that the medicine is right for your child. Here are some other tips for giving medicine safely to your child: Read and follow the label directions every time. Pay special attention to usage directions and warnings. Watch out for problems. Contact your health care provider or pharmacist right away if You notice any new symptoms or unexpected side effects in your child The medicine doesn't appear to be working when you expect it to. For example, antibiotics may take a few days to start working, but a pain reliever usually starts working soon after your child takes it. Know the abbreviations for the amounts of medicines: Tablespoon (tbsp.) Teaspoon (tsp.) Milligram (mg.) Milliliter (mL.) Ounce (oz.) Use the correct dosing device. If the label says two teaspoons and you're using a dosing cup with ounces only, don't try to guess how many teaspoons it would be. Get the proper measuring device. Don't substitute another item, such as a kitchen spoon. Check with your health care provider or pharmacist before giving two medicines at the same time. That way, you can avoid a possible overdose or an unwanted interaction. Follow age and weight limit recommendations. If the label says don't give to children under a certain age or weight, then don't do it. Always use the child-resistant cap and re-lock the cap after each use. Also, keep all medicines out of the reach of children. Ask your health care provider or pharmacist if you have any questions. Food and Drug Administration"
Melanoma,https://medlineplus.gov/melanoma.html,Melanoma is the most serious type of skin cancer. Most have a black or black-blue area. Learn the 'ABCDE' of what to watch for and treatment options.," Melanoma is the most serious type of skin cancer . Often the first sign of melanoma is a change in the size, shape, color, or feel of a mole. Most melanomas have a black or black-blue area. Melanoma may also appear as a new mole. It may be black, abnormal, or ""ugly looking."" Thinking of ""ABCDE"" can help you remember what to watch for: Asymmetry - the shape of one half does not match the other Border - the edges are ragged, blurred or irregular Color - the color is uneven and may include shades of black, brown and tan Diameter - there is a change in size, usually an increase Evolving - the mole has changed over the past few weeks or months Surgery is the first treatment of all stages of melanoma. Other treatments include chemotherapy and radiation, biologic, and targeted therapies. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. Targeted therapy uses substances that attack cancer cells without harming normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Memory,https://medlineplus.gov/memory.html,"Did you forget where you put your keys? It's normal to forget things, but it can be a sign of memory problems. Read more on memory and memory loss."," Every day, you have different experiences and you learn new things. Your brain cannot store all of that information, so it has to decide what is worth remembering. Memory is the process of storing and then remembering this information. There are different types of memory. Short-term memory stores information for a few seconds or minutes. Long-term memory stores it for a longer period of time. Memory doesn't always work perfectly. As you grow older, it may take longer to remember things. It's normal to forget things once in a while. We've all forgotten a name, where we put our keys, or if we locked the front door. If you are an older adult who forget things more often than others your age, you may have mild cognitive impairment . Forgetting how to use your phone or find your way home may be signs of a more serious problem, such as Alzheimer's disease Other types of dementia Stroke Depression Head injuries Blood clots or tumors in the brain Kidney , liver , or thyroid problems Reactions to certain medicines If you're worried about your forgetfulness, see your health care provider. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Men's Health,https://medlineplus.gov/menshealth.html,Did you know that many of the major health risks men face can be prevented and treated with early diagnosis? Get the facts on men's health issues.," Most men need to pay more attention to their health. Compared to women, men are more likely to Smoke and drink Make unhealthy or risky choices Put off regular checkups and medical care There are also health conditions that only affect men, such as prostate cancer and low testosterone. Many of the major health risks that men face - like colon cancer or heart disease - can be prevented and treated with early diagnosis. Screening tests can find diseases early, when they are easier to treat. It's important to get the screening tests you need."
Meniere's Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/menieresdisease.html,"Meniere's disease is a disorder of the inner ear. Symptoms include severe dizziness, tinnitus, hearing loss, and ear pressure or pain. Learn more."," Meniere's disease is a disorder of the inner ear. It can cause severe dizziness , a roaring sound in your ears called tinnitus , hearing loss that comes and goes and the feeling of ear pressure or pain. It usually affects just one ear. It is a common cause of hearing loss. Attacks of dizziness may come on suddenly or after a short period of tinnitus or muffled hearing. Some people have single attacks of dizziness once in a while. Others may have many attacks close together over several days. Some people with Meniere's disease have ""drop attacks"" during which the dizziness is so bad they lose their balance and fall. Scientists don't yet know the cause. They think that it has to do with the fluid levels or the mixing of fluids in the canals of your inner ear. Doctors diagnose it based on a physical exam and your symptoms. A hearing test can check to see how it has affected your hearing. There is no cure. Treatments include medicines to control dizziness, limiting salt in your diet, and taking water pills. A device that fits into the outer ear and delivers air pulses to the middle ear can help. Severe cases may require surgery. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Meningitis,https://medlineplus.gov/meningitis.html,Meningitis or spinal meningitis is inflammation of the tissue around the brain and spinal cord. Discover the differences between types of meningitis. ," Meningitis is inflammation of the thin tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord, called the meninges. There are several types of meningitis. The most common is viral meningitis. You get it when a virus enters the body through the nose or mouth and travels to the brain. Bacterial meningitis is rare, but can be deadly. It usually starts with bacteria that cause a cold-like infection. It can cause stroke , hearing loss , and brain damage. It can also harm other organs. Pneumococcal infections and meningococcal infections are the most common causes of bacterial meningitis. Anyone can get meningitis, but it is more common in people with weak immune systems. Meningitis can get serious very quickly. You should get medical care right away if you have A sudden high fever A severe headache A stiff neck Nausea or vomiting Early treatment can help prevent serious problems, including death. Tests to diagnose meningitis include blood tests, imaging tests, and a spinal tap to test cerebrospinal fluid. Antibiotics can treat bacterial meningitis. Antiviral medicines may help some types of viral meningitis. Other medicines can help treat symptoms. There are vaccines to prevent some of the bacterial infections that cause meningitis. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Meningococcal Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/meningococcalinfections.html,"The most common meningococcal infection is meningitis which can be fatal if not treated early. Luckily, there is a meningococcal vaccine. Read more. "," Meningococci are a type of bacteria that cause serious infections. The most common infection is meningitis , which is an inflammation of the thin tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Meningococci can also cause other problems, including a serious bloodstream infection called sepsis . Meningococcal infections can spread from person to person. Risk factors include Age - it is more common in infants, teens, and young adults Living in close quarters, such as in college dorms or military settings Certain medical conditions, such as not having a spleen Travel to areas where meningococcal disease is common In its early stages, you may have flu-like symptoms and a stiff neck. But the disease can progress quickly and can be fatal. Early diagnosis and treatment are extremely important. Lab tests on your blood and cerebrospinal fluid can tell if you have it. Treatment is with antibiotics. Since the infection spreads from person to person, family members may also need to be treated. A vaccine can prevent meningococcal infections."
Menopause,https://medlineplus.gov/menopause.html,Menopause is when a woman stops having a period. The transition to menopause usually starts in your 40's. Know the symptoms and how to deal with them.," Menopause is the time in a woman's life when her period stops. It usually occurs naturally, most often after age 45. Menopause happens because the woman's ovaries stop producing the hormones estrogen and progesterone. A woman has reached menopause when she has not had a period for one year. Changes and symptoms can start several years earlier. They include A change in periods - shorter or longer, lighter or heavier, with more or less time in between Hot flashes and/or night sweats Trouble sleeping Vaginal dryness Mood swings Trouble focusing Less hair on head, more on face Some symptoms require treatment. Talk to your doctor about how to best manage menopause. Make sure the doctor knows your medical history and your family medical history. This includes whether you are at risk for heart disease , osteoporosis , or breast cancer . Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Menstruation,https://medlineplus.gov/menstruation.html,"Menstruation (or period) happens monthly. As the uterus sheds its lining, vaginal bleeding follows. Menstrual blood is made of blood and tissue."," Menstruation, or period, is normal vaginal bleeding that occurs as part of a woman's monthly cycle. Every month, your body prepares for pregnancy. If no pregnancy occurs, the uterus, or womb, sheds its lining. The menstrual blood is partly blood and partly tissue from inside the uterus. It passes out of the body through the vagina. Periods usually start between age 11 and 14 and continue until menopause at about age 51. They usually last from three to five days. Besides bleeding from the vagina, you may have Abdominal or pelvic cramping pain Lower back pain Bloating and sore breasts Food cravings Mood swings and irritability Headache and fatigue Premenstrual syndrome , or PMS, is a group of symptoms that start before the period. It can include emotional and physical symptoms. Consult your health care provider if you have big changes in your cycle. They may be signs of other problems that should be treated. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Mental Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/mentaldisorders.html,Mental disorders (also called mental illness) include a wide range of problems. There are many causes. Learn more about what can help.," What are mental disorders? Mental disorders (or mental illnesses) are conditions that affect your thinking, feeling, mood, and behavior. They may be occasional or long-lasting (chronic). They can affect your ability to relate to others and function each day. What are some types of mental disorders? There are many different types of mental disorders. Some common ones include Anxiety disorders , including panic disorder , obsessive-compulsive disorder , and phobias Depression , bipolar disorder , and other mood disorders Eating disorders Personality disorders Post-traumatic stress disorder Psychotic disorders , including schizophrenia What causes mental disorders? There is no single cause for mental illness. A number of factors can contribute to risk for mental illness, such as Your genes and family history Your life experiences, such as stress or a history of abuse, especially if they happen in childhood Biological factors such as chemical imbalances in the brain A traumatic brain injury A mother's exposure to viruses or toxic chemicals while pregnant Use of alcohol or recreational drugs Having a serious medical condition like cancer Having few friends, and feeling lonely or isolated Mental disorders are not caused by character flaws. They have nothing to do with being lazy or weak. Who is at risk for mental disorders? Mental disorders are common. More than half of all Americans will be diagnosed with a mental disorder at some time in their life. How are mental disorders diagnosed? The steps to getting a diagnosis include A medical history A physical exam and possibly lab tests, if your provider thinks that other medical conditions could be causing your symptoms A psychological evaluation . You will answer questions about your thinking, feelings, and behaviors. What are the treatments for mental disorders? Treatment depends on which mental disorder you have and how serious it is. You and your provider will work on a treatment plan just for you. It usually involves some type of therapy. You may also take medicines. Some people also need social support and education on managing their condition. In some cases, you may need more intensive treatment. You may need to go to a psychiatric hospital. This could be because your mental illness is severe. Or it could be because you are at risk of hurting yourself or someone else. In the hospital, you will get counseling, group discussions, and activities with mental health professionals and other patients."
Mental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/mentalhealth.html,"Mental health includes our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel, and act as we cope with life. Learn more."," What is mental health? Mental health includes our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel, and act as we cope with life. It also helps determine how we handle stress , relate to others, and make choices. Mental health is important at every stage of life, from childhood and adolescence through adulthood and aging . What are mental disorders? Mental disorders are serious conditions which can affect your thinking, mood, and behavior. They may be occasional or long-lasting. They can affect your ability to relate to others and function each day. Mental disorders are common; more than half of all Americans will be diagnosed with one at some time in their life. But there are treatments. People with mental disorders can get better, and many of them recover completely. Why is mental health important? Mental health is important because it can help you to Cope with the stresses of life Be physically healthy Have good relationships Make meaningful contributions to your community Work productively Realize your full potential Your mental health is also important because it can affect your physical health. For example, mental disorders can raise your risk for physical health problems such as stroke , type 2 diabetes , and heart disease . What can affect my mental health? There are many different factors that can affect your mental health, including Biological factors, such as genes or brain chemistry Life experiences, such as trauma or abuse Family history of mental health problems Your lifestyle, such as diet, physical activity, and substance use You can also affect your mental health by taking steps to improve it , such as doing meditation, using relaxation techniques, and practicing gratitude. Can my mental health change over time? Over time, your mental health can change. For example, you may be dealing with a difficult situation, such as trying to manage a chronic illness, taking care of an ill relative, or facing money problems. The situation may wear you out and overwhelm your ability to cope with it. This can worsen your mental health. On the other hand, getting therapy may improve your mental health. What are the signs that I might have a mental health problem? When it comes to your emotions, it can be hard to know what is normal and what is not. There are warning signs that you may have a mental health problem, including A change in your eating or sleeping habits Withdrawing from the people and activities you enjoy Having low or no energy Feeling numb or like nothing matters Having unexplained aches and pains Feeling helpless or hopeless Smoking, drinking, or using drugs more than usual Feeling unusually confused, forgetful, angry, upset, worried, or scared Having severe mood swings that cause problems in your relationships Having thoughts and memories that you can't get out of your head Hearing voices or believing things that are not true Thinking of harming yourself or others Not being able to perform daily tasks like taking care of your kids or getting to work or school What should I do if I think I have a mental health problem? If you think that you may have a mental health problem, get help. Talk therapy and/or medicines can treat mental disorders. If you don't know where to start, contact your primary care provider."
Mercury,https://medlineplus.gov/mercury.html,It is important to protect your family from mercury exposure. Learn about mercury and how to limit exposure. ," Mercury is an element that is found in air, water and soil. It has several forms. Metallic mercury is a shiny, silver-white, odorless liquid. If heated, it is a colorless, odorless gas. It also combines with other elements to form powders or crystals. Mercury is in many products. Metallic mercury is used in glass thermometers, silver dental fillings, and button batteries. Mercury salts may be used in skin creams and ointments. It's also used in many industries. Mercury in the air settles into water. It can pass through the food chain and build up in fish, shellfish, and animals that eat fish. The nervous system is sensitive to all forms of mercury. Exposure to high levels can damage the brain and kidneys. Pregnant women can pass the mercury in their bodies to their babies. It is important to protect your family from mercury exposure: Carefully handle and dispose of products that contain mercury Limit your consumption of fish with higher levels of mercury Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry"
Mesothelioma,https://medlineplus.gov/mesothelioma.html,"Mesothelioma is a tumor of mesothelium, a tissue that lines lungs and other organs. Most people who get it have inhaled asbestos. Read the symptoms. "," The tissue that lines your lungs, stomach, heart, and other organs is called mesothelium. Mesothelioma, also known as malignant mesothelioma, is cancer of that tissue. It usually starts in the lungs, but can also start in the abdomen or other organs. Malignant mesothelioma is rare but serious. Most people who get it have worked on jobs where they inhaled asbestos particles. After being exposed to asbestos, it usually takes a long time for the disease to form. Symptoms include Trouble breathing Pain under the rib cage Pain, swelling, or lumps in the abdomen Weight loss for no known reason Sometimes it is hard to tell the difference between malignant mesothelioma and lung cancer. Your doctor uses imaging tests and a biopsy to make the diagnosis. Malignant mesothelioma is often found when it is advanced. This makes it harder to treat. Treatment may include surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, and/or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Metabolic Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/metabolicdisorders.html,Your metabolism makes energy from the food you eat. A metabolic disorder disrupts this process. One example is diabetes. Learn more.," Metabolism is the process your body uses to get or make energy from the food you eat. Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your digestive system break the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body tissues, such as your liver, muscles, and body fat. A metabolic disorder occurs when abnormal chemical reactions in your body disrupt this process. When this happens, you might have too much of some substances or too little of other ones that you need to stay healthy. There are different groups of disorders. Some affect the breakdown of amino acids , carbohydrates , or lipids . Another group, mitochondrial diseases , affects the parts of the cells that produce the energy. You can develop a metabolic disorder when some organs, such as your liver or pancreas, become diseased or do not function normally. Diabetes is an example."
Metabolic Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/metabolicsyndrome.html,Metabolic syndrome (also called insulin resistance syndrome) is a group of conditions that put you at risk for heart disease and diabetes. Read more.," What is metabolic syndrome? Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors for heart disease , diabetes , and other health problems. You can have just one risk factor, but people often have several of them together. When you have at least three of them, it is called metabolic syndrome. These risk factors include A large waistline, also called abdominal obesity or ""having an apple shape."" Too much fat around the stomach is a greater risk factor for heart disease than too much fat in other parts of the body. Having a high triglyceride level. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood. Having a low HDL cholesterol level . HDL is sometimes called the ""good"" cholesterol because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries. Having high blood pressure . If your blood pressure stays high over time, it can damage your heart and lead to other health problems. Having a high fasting blood sugar . Mildly high blood sugar may be an early sign of diabetes. The more factors you have, the higher your risk for heart disease, diabetes, and stroke is. What causes metabolic syndrome? Metabolic syndrome has several causes that act together: Overweight and obesity An inactive lifestyle Insulin resistance, a condition in which the body can't use insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into your cells to give them energy. Insulin resistance can lead to high blood sugar levels. Age - your risk goes up as get older Genetics - ethnicity and family history People who have metabolic syndrome often also have excessive blood clotting and inflammation throughout the body. Researchers don't know whether these conditions cause metabolic syndrome or worsen it. Who is at risk for metabolic syndrome? The most important risk factors for metabolic syndrome are Abdominal obesity (a large waistline) An inactive lifestyle Insulin resistance There are certain groups of people who have an increased risk of metabolic syndrome: Some racial and ethnic groups. Mexican Americans have the highest rate of metabolic syndrome, followed by whites and blacks. People who have diabetes People who have a sibling or parent who has diabetes Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) People who take medicines that cause weight gain or changes in blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and blood sugar levels What are the symptoms of metabolic syndrome? Most of the metabolic risk factors have no obvious signs or symptoms, except for a large waistline. How is metabolic syndrome diagnosed? Your health care provider will diagnose metabolic syndrome based on the results of a physical exam and blood tests. You must have at least three of the risk factors to be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome: A large waistline , which means a waist measurement of 35 inches or more for women 40 inches or more for men A high triglyceride level , which is 150 mg/dL or higher A low HDL cholesterol level , which is Less than 50 mg/dL for women Less than 40 mg/dL for men High blood pressure , which is a reading of 130/85 mmHg or higher. A high fasting blood sugar , which is 100 mg/dL or higher What are the treatments for metabolic syndrome? The most important treatment for metabolic syndrome is a heart-healthy lifestyle, which includes A heart-healthy eating plan, which limits the amount of saturated and trans fats that you eat. It encourages you to choose a variety of nutritious foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats. Aiming for a healthy weight Managing stress Getting regular physical activity Quitting smoking (or not starting if you don't already smoke) If making lifestyle changes is not enough, you may need to take medicines. For example, you may need medicines to lower cholesterol or blood pressure. Can metabolic syndrome be prevented? The best way to prevent metabolic syndrome is through the heart-healthy lifestyle changes. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Methamphetamine,https://medlineplus.gov/methamphetamine.html,Methamphetamine (also known as meth or crystal meth) is a very addictive drug. Read about the signs of meth addiction and health problems it causes.," Methamphetamine - meth for short - is a very addictive stimulant drug. It is a powder that can be made into a pill or a shiny rock (called a crystal). The powder can be eaten or snorted up the nose. It can also be mixed with liquid and injected into your body with a needle. Crystal meth is smoked in a small glass pipe. Meth at first causes a rush of good feelings, but then users feel edgy, overly excited, angry, or afraid. Meth use can quickly lead to addiction. It causes medical problems including Making your body temperature so high that you pass out Severe itching ""Meth mouth"" - broken teeth and dry mouth Thinking and emotional problems NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Migraine,https://medlineplus.gov/migraine.html,"Migraines are pulsing or throbbing headaches in one area of the head. Learn about other symptoms, what triggers migraines, and how to treat them."," What are migraines? Migraines are a recurring type of headache. They cause moderate to severe pain that is throbbing or pulsing. The pain is often on one side of your head. You may also have other symptoms, such as nausea and weakness. You may be sensitive to light and sound. What causes migraines? Researchers believe that migraine has a genetic cause. There are also a number of factors that can trigger a migraine. These factors vary from person to person, and they include Stress Anxiety Hormonal changes in women Bright or flashing lights Loud noises Strong smells Medicines Too much or not enough sleep Sudden changes in weather or environment Overexertion (too much physical activity) Tobacco Caffeine or caffeine withdrawal Skipped meals Medication overuse (taking medicine for migraines too often) Some people have found that certain foods or ingredients can trigger headaches, especially when they are combined with other triggers. These foods and ingredients include Alcohol Chocolate Aged cheeses Monosodium glutamate (MSG) Some fruits and nuts Fermented or pickled goods Yeast Cured or processed meats Who is at risk for migraines? About 12% of Americans get migraines. They can affect anyone, but you are more likely to have them if you Are a woman. Women are three times more likely than men to get migraines. Have a family history of migraines. Most people with migraines have family members who have migraines. Have other medical conditions, such as depression , anxiety , bipolar disorder , sleep disorders , and epilepsy . What are the symptoms of migraines? There are four different phases of migraines. You may not always go through every phase each time you have a migraine. Prodome. This phase starts up to 24 hours before you get the migraine. You have early signs and symptoms, such as food cravings, unexplained mood changes, uncontrollable yawning, fluid retention, and increased urination. Aura. If you have this phase, you might see flashing or bright lights or zig-zag lines. You may have muscle weakness or feel like you are being touched or grabbed. An aura can happen just before or during a migraine. Headache. A migraine usually starts gradually and then becomes more severe. It typically causes throbbing or pulsing pain, which is often on one side of your head. But sometimes you can have a migraine without a headache. Other migraine symptoms may include Increased sensitivity to light, noise, and odors Nausea and vomiting Worsened pain when you move, cough, or sneeze Postdrome (following the headache). You may feel exhausted, weak, and confused after a migraine. This can last up to a day. Migraines are more common in the morning; people often wake up with them. Some people have migraines at predictable times, such as before menstruation or on weekends following a stressful week of work. How are migraines diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will Take your medical history Ask about your symptoms Do a physical and neurological exam An important part of diagnosing migraines is to rule out other medical conditions which could be causing the symptoms. So you may also have blood tests, an MRI or CT scan, or other tests. How are migraines treated? There is no cure for migraines. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms and preventing additional attacks. There are different types of medicines to relieve symptoms. They include triptan drugs, ergotamine drugs, and pain relievers . The sooner you take the medicine, the more effective it is. There are also other things you can do to feel better: Resting with your eyes closed in a quiet, darkened room Placing a cool cloth or ice pack on your forehead Drinking fluids There are some lifestyle changes you can make to prevent migraines: Stress management strategies, such as exercise, relaxation techniques, and biofeedback, may reduce the number and severity of migraines. Biofeedback uses electronic devices to teach you to control certain body functions, such as your heartbeat, blood pressure, and muscle tension. Make a log of what seems to trigger your migraines. You can learn what you need to avoid, such as certain foods and medicines. It also help you figure out what you should do, such as establishing a consistent sleep schedule and eating regular meals. Hormone therapy may help some women whose migraines seem to be linked to their menstrual cycle If you have obesity , losing weight may also be helpful If you have frequent or severe migraines, you may need to take medicines to prevent further attacks. Talk with your health care provider about which drug would be right for you. Certain natural treatments, such as riboflavin (vitamin B2) and coenzyme Q10, may help prevent migraines. If your magnesium level is low, you can try taking magnesium. There is also an herb, butterbur, which some people take to prevent migraines. But butterbur may not be safe for long-term use. Always check with your health care provider before taking any supplements. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Mild Cognitive Impairment,https://medlineplus.gov/mildcognitiveimpairment.html,"In mild cognitive impairment (MCI), you have more memory and thinking problems than others your age, but they don't interfere with your everyday life."," Some forgetfulness can be a normal part of aging. However, some people have more memory problems than other people their age. This condition is called mild cognitive impairment, or MCI. People with MCI can take care of themselves and do their normal activities. MCI memory problems may include Losing things often Forgetting to go to events and appointments Having more trouble coming up with words than other people of the same age Memory problems can also have other causes, including certain medicines and diseases that affect the blood vessels that supply the brain. Some of the problems brought on by these conditions can be managed or reversed. Your health care provider can do thinking, memory, and language tests to see if you have MCI. You may also need to see a specialist for more tests. Because MCI may be an early sign of Alzheimer's disease , it's really important to see your health care provider every 6 to 12 months. At this time, there is no proven drug treatment for MCI. Your health care provider can check to see if you have any changes in your memory or thinking skills over time. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Minerals,https://medlineplus.gov/minerals.html,"Your body uses minerals to build bones, make hormones, and regulate your heartbeat. Read about the types of minerals and how to get them."," Minerals are important for your body to stay healthy. Your body uses minerals for many different jobs, including keeping your bones, muscles, heart, and brain working properly. Minerals are also important for making enzymes and hormones. There are two kinds of minerals: macrominerals and trace minerals. You need larger amounts of macrominerals. They include calcium , phosphorus, magnesium, sodium , potassium , chloride and sulfur. You only need small amounts of trace minerals. They include iron , manganese, copper, iodine, zinc, cobalt, fluoride and selenium. Most people get the amount of minerals they need by eating a wide variety of foods. In some cases, your doctor may recommend a mineral supplement. People who have certain health problems or take some medicines may need to get less of one of the minerals. For example, people with chronic kidney disease need to limit foods that are high in potassium."
Miscarriage,https://medlineplus.gov/miscarriage.html,A miscarriage is the loss of a pregnancy during the first 13 weeks of pregnancy. Read about symptoms and how to cope if you've suffered a miscarriage.," A miscarriage is an unexpected loss of pregnancy before the 20th week of pregnancy. Most miscarriages happen very early in the pregnancy, often before a woman even knows she is pregnant. Factors that may contribute to miscarriage include A genetic problem with the fetus Problems with the uterus or cervix Chronic diseases, such as polycystic ovary syndrome Signs of a miscarriage include vaginal spotting, abdominal pain or cramping, and fluid or tissue passing from the vagina. Bleeding can be a symptom of miscarriage, but many women also have it in early pregnancy and don't miscarry. To be sure, contact your health care provider right away if you have bleeding. Women who miscarry early in their pregnancy usually do not need any treatment. In some cases, there is tissue left in the uterus. Doctors use a procedure called a dilatation and curettage (D&amp;C) or medicines to remove the tissue. Counseling may help you cope with your grief. Later, if you do decide to try again, work closely with your health care provider to lower the risks. Many women who have a miscarriage go on to have healthy babies. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Mitochondrial Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/mitochondrialdiseases.html,"Mitochondria make energy for your cells. Diseases can affect mitochondria, often causing nerve and muscle problems. Find out more."," Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat. Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your digestive system (enzymes) break the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body tissues. If you have a metabolic disorder , something goes wrong with this process. Mitochondrial diseases are a group of metabolic disorders. Mitochondria are small structures that produce energy in almost all of your cells. They make it by combining oxygen with the fuel molecules (sugars and fats) that come from your food. When the mitochondria are defective, the cells do not have enough energy. The unused oxygen and fuel molecules build up in the cells and cause damage. The symptoms of mitochondrial disease can vary. It depends on how many mitochondria are defective, and where they are in the body. Sometimes only one organ, tissue, or cell type is affected. But often the problem affects many of them. Muscle and nerve cells have especially high energy needs, so muscular and neurological problems are common. The diseases range from mild to severe. Some types can be fatal. Genetic mutations cause these diseases. They usually happen before age 20, and some are more common in infants. There are no cures for these diseases, but treatments may help with symptoms and slow down the disease. They may include physical therapy, vitamins and supplements, special diets, and medicines."
Mitral Valve Prolapse,https://medlineplus.gov/mitralvalveprolapse.html,Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) occurs when one of your heart's valves doesn't work properly. Problems are rare. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) occurs when one of your heart's valves doesn't work properly. The flaps of the valve are ""floppy"" and don't close tightly. Most people who have the condition are born with it. It also tends to run in families. Most of the time, MVP doesn't cause any problems. Rarely, blood can leak the wrong way through the floppy valve. This can cause Palpitations (feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast) Shortness of breath Cough Fatigue, dizziness, or anxiety Migraine headaches Chest discomfort Most people who have mitral valve prolapse (MVP) don't need treatment because they don't have symptoms and complications. If you need treatment for MVP, medicines can help relieve symptoms or prevent complications. Very few people will need surgery to repair or replace the mitral valve. MVP puts you at risk for infective endocarditis , a kind of heart infection. To prevent it, doctors used to prescribe antibiotics before dental work or certain surgeries. Now, only people at high risk of endocarditis need the antibiotics. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Mobility Aids,https://medlineplus.gov/mobilityaids.html,Mobility aids help you walk or move if you are disabled or have an injury. Choosing these devices takes time and research. Learn more. ," Mobility aids help you walk or move from place to place if you are disabled or have an injury. They include Crutches Canes Walkers Wheelchairs Motorized scooters You may need a walker or cane if you are at risk of falling. If you need to keep your body weight off your foot, ankle or knee, you may need crutches. You may need a wheelchair or a scooter if an injury or disease has left you unable to walk. Choosing these devices takes time and research. You should be fitted for crutches, canes and walkers. If they fit, these devices give you support, but if they don't fit, they can be uncomfortable and unsafe."
Molds,https://medlineplus.gov/molds.html,"If you have wet spots in your house, you will probably get mold. Molds, such as black mold, can cause health problems. Read more."," Molds are fungi that can be found both outdoors and indoors. They grow best in warm, damp and humid conditions. If you have damp or wet spots in your house, you will probably get mold. Molds can cause health problems. Inhaling or touching mold or mold spores may cause allergic reactions or asthma attacks in sensitive people. Molds can cause fungal infections . In addition, mold exposure may irritate your eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Moles,https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html,"Moles are skin growths, most people have them. Nevus is an unusual mole or a birthmark. Have them checked if they should change in size or color."," Moles are growths on the skin. They happen when pigment cells in the skin, called melanocytes, grow in clusters. Moles are very common. Most people have between 10 and 40 moles. A person may develop new moles from time to time, usually until about age 40. In older people, they tend to fade away. Moles are usually pink, tan or brown. They can be flat or raised. They are usually round or oval and no larger than a pencil eraser. About one out of every ten people has at least one unusual (or atypical) mole that looks different from an ordinary mole. They are called dysplastic nevi. They may be more likely than ordinary moles to develop into melanoma , a type of skin cancer. You should have a health care professional check your moles if they look unusual, grow larger, change in color or outline, or in any other way. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Mood Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/mooddisorders.html,Most people feel sad or irritable sometimes. They may say they're in a bad mood. But mood disorders affect your everyday emotional state. Learn more.," Most people feel sad or irritable from time to time. They may say they're in a bad mood. A mood disorder is different. It affects a person's everyday emotional state. Nearly one in ten people aged 18 and older have mood disorders. These include depression and bipolar disorder (also called manic depression). Mood disorders can increase a person's risk for heart disease, diabetes, and other diseases. Treatments include medication, psychotherapy, or a combination of both. With treatment, most people with mood disorders can lead productive lives."
Mosquito Bites,https://medlineplus.gov/mosquitobites.html,Mosquitoes can be more than just annoying; sometimes they spread diseases. Learn about the diseases and how to protect yourself from mosquito bites.," Mosquitoes are insects that live all over the world. There are thousands of different species of mosquitoes; about 200 of those live in the United States. Female mosquitoes bite animals and humans and drink a very small amount of their blood. They need protein and iron from blood to produce eggs. After drinking blood, they find some standing water and lay their eggs in it. The eggs hatch into larvae, then pupae, and then they become adult mosquitos. The males live for about a week to ten days, and the females can live up to several weeks. Some female mosquitoes can hibernate in the winter, and they can live for months. What health problems can mosquito bites cause? Most mosquito bites are harmless, but there are times when they can be dangerous. The ways that mosquito bites can affect humans include Causing itchy bumps , as an immune system response to the mosquito's saliva. This is the most common reaction. The bumps usually go away after a day or two. Causing allergic reactions , including blisters, large hives, and in rare cases, anaphylaxis . Anaphylaxis is a severe allergic reaction that affects the whole body. It is a medical emergency. Spreading diseases to humans . Some of these diseases can be serious. Many of them do not have any treatments, and only a few have vaccines to prevent them. These diseases are more of a problem in Africa and other tropical areas of the world, but more of them are spreading to the United States. One factor is climate change , which makes the conditions in some parts of the United States more favorable to certain types of mosquitoes. Other reasons include increased trade with, and travel to, tropical and subtropical areas. Which diseases can mosquitoes spread? Common diseases spread by mosquitoes include Chikungunya , a viral infection that causes symptoms such as fever and severe joint pain. The symptoms usually last about a week, but for some, the joint pain may last for months. Most cases of chikungunya in the United States are in people who traveled to other countries. There have been a few cases where it has spread in the United States. Dengue , a viral infection that causes a high fever, headaches, joint and muscle pain, vomiting, and a rash. Most people get better within a few weeks. In some cases, it can become very severe, even life-threatening. Dengue is rare in the United States. Malaria , a parasitic disease that causes serious symptoms such as high fevers, shaking chills, and flu-like illness. It can be life-threatening, but there are drugs to treat it. Malaria is a major health problem in many tropical and subtropical areas of the world. Almost all cases of malaria in the United States are in people who traveled to other countries. West Nile Virus (WNV), a viral infection that often has no symptoms. In those that do have symptoms, they are usually mild, and include fever, headache, and nausea. In rare cases, the virus can enter the brain, and it can be life-threatening. WNV has spread across the continental United States. Zika Virus , a viral infection that often does not cause symptoms. One in five infected people do get symptoms, which are usually mild. They include a fever, rash, joint pain, and pink eye. Besides being spread by mosquitoes, Zika can spread from mother to baby during pregnancy and cause serious birth defects. It can also spread from one partner to another during sex. There have been a few outbreaks of Zika in the southern United States. Can mosquito bites be prevented? Use an insect repellent when you go outdoors. Choose an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellent. They are evaluated to make sure they are safe and effective. Make sure that the repellant has one of these ingredients: DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus, or para-menthane-diol. It is important to follow the instructions on the label. Cover up. Wear long sleeves, long pants, and socks when outdoors. Mosquitoes may bite through thin fabric, so spray thin clothes with an EPA-registered repellent like permethrin. Don't apply permethrin directly to skin. Mosquito-proof your home. Install or repair screens on windows and doors to keep mosquitoes out. Use air conditioning if you have it. Get rid of mosquito breeding sites. Regularly empty standing water from your house and yard. The water could be in flowerpots, gutters, buckets, pool covers, pet water dishes, discarded tires, or birdbaths. If you plan to travel, get information about the areas you will be going to. Find out whether there is a risk of diseases from mosquitoes, and if so, whether there is a vaccine or medicine to prevent those diseases. See a health care provider familiar with travel medicine, ideally 4 to 6 weeks before your trip."
Motion Sickness,https://medlineplus.gov/motionsickness.html,"Motion sickness can start suddenly, with a queasy feeling and cold sweats. Read about how you can prevent motion sickness while traveling. "," Motion sickness is a common problem in people traveling by car, train, airplanes, and especially boats. Anyone can get it, but it is more common in children, pregnant women, and people taking certain medicines. Motion sickness can start suddenly, with a queasy feeling and cold sweats. It can then lead to dizziness and nausea and vomiting . Your brain senses movement by getting signals from your inner ears, eyes, muscles, and joints. When it gets signals that do not match, you can get motion sickness. For example, if you are reading on your phone while riding a bus, your eyes are focused on something that is not moving, but your inner ear senses motion. Where you sit can make a difference. The front seat of a car, forward cars of a train, upper deck on a boat or wing seats in a plane may give you a smoother ride. Looking out into the distance - instead of trying to read or look at something in the vehicle - can also help. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Motor Vehicle Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/motorvehiclesafety.html,Every year thousands of people in the U.S. die from car crashes. Read about how to be safe on the road. ," Every year thousands of people in the U.S. die from motor vehicle crashes. Trying to prevent these crashes is one part of motor vehicle safety. Here are some things you can do to be safer on the road: Make sure your vehicle is safe and in working order Use car seats for children Wear your seat belt Don't speed or drive aggressively Don't drive impaired Safety also involves being aware of others. Share the road with bicycles and motorcycles, and watch for pedestrians."
Mouth Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/mouthdisorders.html,"Common mouth problems include cold sores, canker sores, thrush, dry mouth, and bad breath. Discover information on all of these common disorders."," Your mouth is one of the most important parts of your body. It has many different functions. It allows you to Take in food and drink Breathe in air Start digestion, with your teeth chewing the food you eat and your salivary glands releasing saliva to help break down the food Speak and sing Show emotion, by smiling or pouting Any problem that affects your mouth can make it hard to eat, drink, or even smile. Some common mouth problems include Cold sores - painful sores on the lips and around the mouth, caused by a virus Canker sores - painful sores in the mouth, caused by bacteria or viruses Thrush - a yeast infection that causes white patches in your mouth Leukoplakia - white patches of excess cell growth on the cheeks, gums or tongue, common in smokers Dry mouth - a lack of enough saliva, caused by some medicines and certain diseases Gum or tooth problems Bad breath Treatment for mouth disorders varies, depending on the problem. If a mouth problem is caused by some other disease, treating that disease can help. It is also important to keep your mouth clean and healthy by brushing, flossing, and not using tobacco."
Movement Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/movementdisorders.html,"Movement disorders can be caused by nerve diseases, autoimmune diseases, infections and more. Many movement disorders are inherited."," Movement disorders are neurologic conditions that cause problems with movement, such as Increased movement that can be voluntary (intentional) or involuntary (unintended) Decreased or slow voluntary movement There are many different movement disorders. Some of the more common types include Ataxia, the loss of muscle coordination Dystonia , in which involuntary contractions of your muscles cause twisting and repetitive movements. The movements can be painful. Huntington's disease , an inherited disease that causes nerve cells in certain parts of the brain to waste away. This includes the nerve cells that help to control voluntary movement. Parkinson's disease , which is disorder that slowly gets worse over time. It causes tremors, slowness of movement, and trouble walking . Tourette syndrome , a condition which causes people to make sudden twitches, movements, or sounds (tics) Tremor and essential tremor, which cause involuntary trembling or shaking movements. The movements may be in one or more parts of your body. Causes of movement disorders include Genetics Infections Medicines Damage to the brain , spinal cord , or peripheral nerves Metabolic disorders Stroke and vascular diseases Toxins Treatment varies by disorder. Medicines can cure some disorders. Others get better when an underlying disease is treated. Often, however, there is no cure. In that case, the goal of treatment is to improve symptoms and relieve pain."
MRI Scans,https://medlineplus.gov/mriscans.html,Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) uses a large magnet and radio waves to look at organs and structures inside the body. Read about the use of MRI scan.," Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) uses a large magnet and radio waves to look at organs and structures inside your body. Health care professionals use MRI scans to diagnose a variety of conditions, from torn ligaments to tumors. MRIs are very useful for examining the brain and spinal cord. During the scan, you lie on a table that slides inside a tunnel-shaped machine. Doing the scan can take a long time, and you must stay still. The scan is painless. The MRI machine makes a lot of noise. The technician may offer you earplugs. Before you get a scan, tell your doctor if you Are pregnant Have pieces of metal in your body. You might have metal in your body if you have a shrapnel or bullet injury or if you are a welder. Have metal or electronic devices in your body, such as a cardiac pacemaker or a metal artificial joint"
MRSA,https://medlineplus.gov/mrsa.html,"MRSA infection is a staph infection that is resistant to some antibiotics. Read about MRSA symptoms, treatment, and prevention."," MRSA stands for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. It causes a staph infection (pronounced ""staff infection"") that is resistant to several common antibiotics . There are two types of infection. Hospital-associated MRSA happens to people in health care settings. Community-associated MRSA happens to people who have close skin-to-skin contact with others, such as athletes involved in football and wrestling. Infection control is key to stopping MRSA in hospitals. To prevent community-associated MRSA Practice good hygiene Keep cuts and scrapes clean and covered with a bandage until healed Avoid contact with other people's wounds or bandages Avoid sharing personal items, such as towels, washcloths, razors, or clothes Wash soiled sheets, towels, and clothes in hot water with bleach and dry in a hot dryer If a wound appears to be infected, see a health care provider. Treatments may include draining the infection and antibiotics."
Multiple Myeloma,https://medlineplus.gov/multiplemyeloma.html,"Multiple myeloma is a cancer that begins in plasma cells, a type of white blood cell. Discover symptoms, diagnostic tests, and treatments for myeloma."," Multiple myeloma is a cancer that begins in plasma cells, a type of white blood cell. These cells are part of your immune system, which helps protect the body from germs and other harmful substances. In time, myeloma cells collect in the bone marrow and in the solid parts of bones. No one knows the exact causes of multiple myeloma, but it is more common in older people and African Americans. It can run in families. Common symptoms may include Bone pain, often in the back or ribs Fractures (broken bones) Weakness or fatigue Weight loss Frequent infections and fevers Feeling very thirsty Frequent urination Doctors diagnose multiple myeloma using lab tests, imaging tests, and a bone marrow biopsy. Your treatment depends on how advanced the disease is and whether you have symptoms. If you have no symptoms, you may not need treatment right away. If you have symptoms, you may have chemotherapy, stem cell transplantation, radiation, or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Multiple Sclerosis,https://medlineplus.gov/multiplesclerosis.html,Multiple sclerosis (MS) slows down or blocks messages between the brain and body. MS can be mild or severe. Learn about MS symptoms and treatment.," Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a nervous system disease that affects your brain and spinal cord. It damages the myelin sheath, the material that surrounds and protects your nerve cells. This damage slows down or blocks messages between your brain and your body, leading to the symptoms of MS. They can include Visual disturbances Muscle weakness Trouble with coordination and balance Sensations such as numbness, prickling, or ""pins and needles"" Thinking and memory problems No one knows what causes MS. It may be an autoimmune disease, which happens when your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Multiple sclerosis affects women more than men. It often begins between the ages of 20 and 40. Usually, the disease is mild, but some people lose the ability to write, speak, or walk. There is no specific test for MS. Doctors use a medical history, physical exam, neurological exam, MRI, and other tests to diagnose it. There is no cure for MS, but medicines may slow it down and help control symptoms. Physical and occupational therapy may also help. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Mumps,https://medlineplus.gov/mumps.html,"Mumps symptoms include fever, headache, and muscle aches. There is no treatment, but the MMR vaccine can prevent it. Get the facts about the vaccine."," Mumps is an illness caused by the mumps virus. It starts with Fever Headache Muscle aches Tiredness Loss of appetite After that, the salivary glands under the ears or jaw become swollen and tender. The swelling can be on one or both sides of the face. Symptoms last 7 to 10 days. Serious complications are rare. You can catch mumps by being with another person who has it. There is no treatment for mumps, but the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine can prevent it. Before the routine vaccination program in the United States, mumps was a common illness in infants, children and young adults. Now it is a rare disease in the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Muscle Cramps,https://medlineplus.gov/musclecramps.html,"Have you ever had sudden, painful cramps in a muscle? These muscle spasms (also called charley horse) are very common. Learn how to relieve the pain."," What are muscle cramps? Muscle cramps are sudden, involuntary contractions or spasms in one or more of your muscles. They are very common and often occur after exercise. Some people get muscle cramps, especially leg cramps, at night. They can be painful, and they may last a few seconds to several minutes. You can have a cramp in any muscle, but they happen most often in the Thighs Feet Hands Arms Abdomen Area along your ribcage What causes muscle cramps? Causes of muscle cramps include: Straining or overusing a muscle. This is the most common cause. Compression of your nerves, from problems such as a spinal cord injury or a pinched nerve in the neck or back Dehydration Low levels of electrolytes such as magnesium, potassium , or calcium Not enough blood getting to your muscles Pregnancy Certain medicines Getting dialysis Sometimes the cause of muscle cramps is unknown. Who is at risk for muscle cramps? Anyone can get muscle cramps, but they are more common in some people: Older adults People who are overweight Athletes Pregnant women People with certain medical conditions, such as thyroid and nerve disorders When do I need to see a health care provider for muscle cramps? Muscle cramps are usually harmless, and they go away after a few minutes. But you should contact your health care provider if the cramps Are severe Happen frequently Don't get better with stretching and drinking enough fluids Last a long time Are accompanied by swelling, redness, or a feeling of warmth Are accompanied by muscle weakness What are the treatments for muscle cramps? You usually don't need treatment for muscle cramps. You may be able to find some relief from cramps by Stretching or gently massaging the muscle Applying heat when the muscle is tight and ice when the muscle is sore Getting more fluids if you are dehydrated If another medical problem is causing the cramps, treating that problem will likely help. There are medicines that providers sometimes prescribe to prevent cramps, but they are not always effective and may cause side effects. Talk to your provider about the risks and benefits of medicines. Can muscle cramps be prevented? To prevent muscle cramps, you can Stretch your muscles, especially before exercising. If you often get leg cramps at night, stretch your leg muscles before bed. Drink plenty of liquids. If you do intense exercise or exercise in the heat, sports drinks can help you replace electrolytes."
Muscle Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/muscledisorders.html,"Your muscles help you move and help your body work. Muscle disorders can cause weakness, pain or even paralysis. Read more about muscle disorders."," Your muscles help you move and help your body work. Different types of muscles have different jobs. There are many problems that can affect muscles. Muscle disorders can cause weakness, pain or even paralysis. Causes of muscle disorders include Injury or overuse, such as sprains or strains , cramps or tendinitis A genetic disorder, such as muscular dystrophy Some cancers Inflammation, such as myositis Diseases of nerves that affect muscles Infections Certain medicines Sometimes the cause of muscle disorders is unknown."
Muscular Dystrophy,https://medlineplus.gov/musculardystrophy.html,Muscular dystrophy (MD) is characterized by progressive weakness and muscle damage. Read about who it affects and the prognosis.," Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of more than 30 inherited diseases. They all cause muscle weakness and muscle loss. Some forms of MD appear in infancy or childhood. Others may not appear until middle age or later. The different types can vary in whom they affect, which muscles they affect, and what the symptoms are. All forms of MD grow worse as the person's muscles get weaker. Most people with MD eventually lose the ability to walk. There is no cure for muscular dystrophy. Treatments can help with the symptoms and prevent complications. They include physical and speech therapy, orthopedic devices, surgery, and medications. Some people with MD have mild cases that worsen slowly. Others cases are disabling and severe. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Myasthenia Gravis,https://medlineplus.gov/myastheniagravis.html,"Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease that weakens the muscles under your control.  Find out about MG causes, symptoms, and treatment."," Myasthenia gravis is a disease that causes weakness in your voluntary muscles. These are the muscles that you control. For example, you may have weakness in the muscles for eye movement, facial expressions, and swallowing. You can also have weakness in other muscles. This weakness gets worse with activity, and better with rest. Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease . Your body's immune system makes antibodies that block or change some of the nerve signals to your muscles. This makes your muscles weaker. Other conditions can cause muscle weakness, so myasthenia gravis can be hard to diagnose. Tests used to make a diagnosis include blood, nerve, muscle, and imaging tests . With treatment, the muscle weakness often gets much better. Medicines can help improve nerve-to-muscle messages and make muscles stronger. Other drugs keep your body from making so many abnormal antibodies. These medicines can have major side effects, so they should be used carefully. There are also treatments which filter abnormal antibodies from the blood or add healthy antibodies from donated blood. Sometimes, surgery to take out the thymus gland helps. Some people with myasthenia gravis go into remission. This means that they do not have symptoms. The remission is usually temporary, but sometimes it can be permanent. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Mycobacterial Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/mycobacterialinfections.html,Mycobacteria are a type of germ. There are many different kinds. Read about the types of mycobacteria and the symptoms of infection. ," Mycobacteria are a type of germ. There are many different kinds. The most common one causes tuberculosis . Another one causes leprosy. Still others cause infections that are called atypical mycobacterial infections. They aren't ""typical"" because they don't cause tuberculosis. But they can still harm people, especially people with other problems that affect their immunity, such as AIDS. Sometimes you can have these infections with no symptoms at all. At other times, they can cause lung symptoms similar to tuberculosis: Cough Weight loss Coughing up blood or mucus Weakness or fatigue Fever and chills Night sweats Lack of appetite and weight loss Medicines can treat these infections, but often more than one is needed to cure the infection."
Myelodysplastic Syndromes,https://medlineplus.gov/myelodysplasticsyndromes.html,"Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) are rare. They are sometimes found during a routine blood test. Learn symptoms, risk factors, and treatment options. "," Your bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside some of your bones, such as your hip and thigh bones. It contains immature cells, called stem cells. The stem cells can develop into the red blood cells that carry oxygen through your body, the white blood cells that fight infections, and the platelets that help with blood clotting. If you have a myelodysplastic syndrome, the stem cells do not mature into healthy blood cells. Many of them die in the bone marrow. This means that you do not have enough healthy cells, which can lead to infection, anemia , or easy bleeding. Myelodysplastic syndromes often do not cause early symptoms and are sometimes found during a routine blood test. If you have symptoms, they may include Shortness of breath Weakness or feeling tired Skin that is paler than usual Easy bruising or bleeding Pinpoint spots under the skin caused by bleeding Fever or frequent infections Myelodysplastic syndromes are rare. People at higher risk are over 60, have had chemotherapy or radiation therapy, or have been exposed to certain chemicals. Treatment options include transfusions, drug therapy, chemotherapy, and blood or bone marrow stem cell transplants. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Myositis,https://medlineplus.gov/myositis.html,Myositis means inflammation of the muscles. Two specific types are polymyositis and dermatomyositis. Read about myositis symptoms and management.," Myositis means inflammation of the muscles that you use to move your body. An injury, infection, or autoimmune disease can cause it. Two specific kinds are polymyositis and dermatomyositis. Polymyositis causes muscle weakness, usually in the muscles closest to the trunk of your body. Dermatomyositis causes muscle weakness, plus a skin rash. Other symptoms of myositis may include Fatigue after walking or standing Tripping or falling Trouble swallowing or breathing Doctors may use a physical exam, lab tests, imaging tests and a muscle biopsy to diagnose myositis. There is no cure for these diseases, but you can treat the symptoms. Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are first treated with high doses of a corticosteroid . Other options include medications, physical therapy, exercise, heat therapy, assistive devices, and rest. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Nail Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/naildiseases.html,The health of your fingernails and toenails can be a clue to your overall health. Read about diseases that can affect your nails and about nail care.," Your toenails and fingernails protect the tissues of your toes and fingers. They are made up of layers of a hardened protein called keratin, which is also in your hair and skin. The health of your nails can be a clue to your overall health. Healthy nails are usually smooth and consistent in color. Specific types of nail discoloration and changes in growth rate can be signs of lung, heart, kidney, and liver diseases, as well as diabetes and anemia. White spots and vertical ridges are harmless. Nail problems that sometimes require treatment include Bacterial and fungal infections Ingrown nails Tumors Warts Keeping your nails clean, dry, and trimmed can help you avoid some problems. Do not remove the cuticle, which can cause infection."
Nasal Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/nasalcancer.html,"Cancer of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses is rare, but you are at a greater risk if you are a smoker. Learn other factors increase your risk."," Your paranasal sinuses are small hollow spaces around the nose. They are lined with cells that make mucus, which keeps your nose from drying out. The nasal cavity is the passageway just behind your nose. Air passes through it on the way to your throat as you breathe. Cancer of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses is rare. You are at greater risk if you are Male and over 40 years old Exposed to certain workplace chemicals Infected with HPV A smoker There may be no symptoms at first, and later symptoms can be like those of infections. Doctors diagnose nasal cancer with imaging tests, lighted tube-like instruments that look inside the nose, and biopsies. Treatment options include surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Health,https://medlineplus.gov/nativehawaiianandpacificislanderhealth.html,"Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. On this page, you'll find links to issues that affect Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders."," Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from: Genetics Environmental factors Access to care Cultural factors On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders."
Nausea and Vomiting,https://medlineplus.gov/nauseaandvomiting.html,"You call it barfing, puking, or throwing up, your doctor calls it vomiting. Read more about nausea and vomiting and the conditions that cause them."," What are nausea and vomiting? Nausea is when you feel sick to your stomach, as if you are going to throw up. Vomiting is when you throw up. What causes nausea and vomiting? Nausea and vomiting can be symptoms of many different conditions, including Morning sickness during pregnancy Gastroenteritis (infection of your intestines) and other infections Migraines Motion sickness Food poisoning Medicines, including those for cancer chemotherapy GERD (reflux) and ulcers Intestinal obstruction When do I need to see a health care provider for nausea and vomiting? Nausea and vomiting are common. They are usually not serious. However, you should contact your health care provider immediately if you have A reason to think that your vomiting is from poisoning Vomited for longer than 24 hours Blood in the vomit Severe abdominal pain Severe headache and stiff neck Signs of dehydration , such as dry mouth, infrequent urination or dark urine How is the cause of nausea and vomiting diagnosed? Your health care provider will take your medical history, ask about your symptoms and do a physical exam. The provider will look for signs of dehydration. You may have some tests, including blood and urine tests. Women may also have a pregnancy test. What are the treatments for nausea and vomiting? Treatments for nausea and vomiting depend on the cause. You may get treatment for the underlying problem. There are some medicines that can treatment nausea and vomiting. For severe cases of vomiting, you may need extra fluids through an IV (intravenous). There are things that you can do to feel better: Get enough fluids, to avoid dehydration. If you are having trouble keeping liquids down, drink small amounts of clear liquids often. Eat bland foods; stay away from spicy, fatty, or salty foods Eat smaller meals more often Avoid strong smells, since they can sometimes trigger nausea and vomiting If you are pregnant and have morning sickness, eat crackers before you get out of bed in the morning"
Neck Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/neckinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Neck pain is very common and can happen for many reasons, such as overuse, muscle strain, or whiplash. Learn how to relieve neck pain."," Any part of your neck - muscles, bones, joints, tendons, ligaments, or nerves - can cause neck problems. Neck pain is very common. Pain may also come from your shoulder, jaw, head, or upper arms. Muscle strain or tension often causes neck pain. The problem is usually overuse, such as from sitting at a computer for too long. Sometimes you can strain your neck muscles from sleeping in an awkward position or overdoing it during exercise. Falls or accidents, including car accidents, are another common cause of neck pain. Whiplash, a soft tissue injury to the neck, is also called neck sprain or strain. Treatment depends on the cause, but may include applying ice, taking pain relievers, getting physical therapy or wearing a cervical collar. You rarely need surgery."
Neural Tube Defects,https://medlineplus.gov/neuraltubedefects.html,"Neural tube defects are birth defects of the brain, spine, or spinal cord. They happen in the first month of pregnancy. Learn how to prevent them."," Neural tube defects are birth defects of the brain, spine, or spinal cord. They happen in the first month of pregnancy, often before a woman even knows that she is pregnant. The two most common neural tube defects are spina bifida and anencephaly. In spina bifida, the fetal spinal column doesn't close completely. There is usually nerve damage that causes at least some paralysis of the legs. In anencephaly, most of the brain and skull do not develop. Babies with anencephaly are usually either stillborn or die shortly after birth. Another type of defect, Chiari malformation , causes the brain tissue to extend into the spinal canal. The exact causes of neural tube defects aren't known. You're at greater risk of having an infant with a neural tube defect if you Have obesity Have poorly controlled diabetes Take certain antiseizure medicines Getting enough folic acid , a type of B vitamin, before and during pregnancy prevents most neural tube defects. Neural tube defects are usually diagnosed before the infant is born, through lab or imaging tests. There is no cure for neural tube defects. The nerve damage and loss of function that are present at birth are usually permanent. However, a variety of treatments can sometimes prevent further damage and help with complications. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Neuroblastoma,https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html,"Neuroblastoma is a cancer in nerve tissue in the adrenal gland, neck, chest, or spinal cord. It often affects young children. Read about treatments."," What is neuroblastoma? Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that forms in nerve cells called neuroblasts. Neuroblasts are immature nerve tissue. They normally turn into working nerve cells. But in neuroblastoma, they form a tumor. Neuroblastoma usually begins in the adrenal glands. You have two adrenal glands, one on top of each kidney. The adrenal glands make important hormones that help control heart rate, blood pressure, blood sugar, and the way the body reacts to stress. Neuroblastoma may also begin in the neck, chest or spinal cord. What causes neuroblastoma? Neuroblastoma is caused by mutations (changes) in genes. In most cases, the cause of the mutation is unknown. In some other cases, the mutation is passed from the parent to the child. What are the symptoms of neuroblastoma? Neuroblastoma often begins in early childhood . Sometimes it begins before a child is born.The most common symptoms are caused by the tumor pressing on nearby tissues as it grows or by cancer spreading to the bone.They include A lump in the abdomen, neck or chest Bulging eyes Dark circles around the eyes Bone pain Swollen stomach and trouble breathing in babies Painless, bluish lumps under the skin in babies Inability to move a body part (paralysis) How is neuroblastoma diagnosed? To diagnose neuroblastoma, your child's health care provider will do various tests and procedures, which may include A medical history A neurological exam Imaging test s, such as x-rays , a CT scan , an ultrasound , an MRI , or an MIBG scan. In an MIBG scan, a small amount of a radioactive substance is injected into a vein. It travels through the bloodstream and attaches itself to any neuroblastoma cells. A scanner detects the cells. Blood and urine tests Biopsy , where a sample of tissue is removed and examined under a microscope Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, where bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone are removed for testing What are the treatments for neuroblastoma? The treatments for neuroblastoma include: Observation, also called watchful waiting, where the health care provider does not give any treatments until your child's signs or symptoms appear or change Surgery Radiation therapy Chemotherapy High-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell rescue. Your child will get high doses of chemotherapy and radiation. This kills the cancer cells, but it also kills healthy cells. So your child will get a stem cell transplant , usually of his or her own cells collected earlier. This helps to replace the healthy cells that were lost. Iodine 131-MIBG therapy, a treatment with radioactive iodine. The radioactive iodine collects in neuroblastoma cells and kills them with the radiation that is given off. Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Neurofibromatosis,https://medlineplus.gov/neurofibromatosis.html,"Neurofibromatosis (NF) is a genetic disorder that causes tumors to grow on nerves. Learn about the types, their symptoms, and how they are treated."," Neurofibromatosis is a genetic disorder of the nervous system. It mainly affects how nerve cells form and grow. It causes tumors to grow on nerves. You can get neurofibromatosis from your parents, or it can happen because of a mutation (change) in your genes. Once you have it, you can pass it along to your children. Usually the tumors are benign, but sometimes they can become cancerous. There are three types of neurofibromatosis: Type 1 (NF1) causes skin changes and deformed bones. It usually starts in childhood. Sometimes the symptoms are present at birth. Type 2 (NF2) causes hearing loss, ringing in the ears, and poor balance. Symptoms often start in the teen years. Schwannomatosis causes intense pain. It is the rarest type. Doctors diagnose the different types based on the symptoms. Genetic testing is also used to diagnose NF1 and NF2. There is no cure. Treatment can help control symptoms. Depending on the type of disease and how serious it is, treatment may include surgery to remove tumors, radiation therapy, and medicines. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Neurologic Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/neurologicdiseases.html,"Your nervous system includes your brain, spinal cord, and nerves. Learn about neurologic diseases, including their symptoms, causes, and treatments."," The brain, spinal cord, and nerves make up the nervous system. Together they control all the workings of the body. When something goes wrong with a part of your nervous system, you can have trouble moving, speaking, swallowing, breathing, or learning. You can also have problems with your memory, senses, or mood. There are more than 600 neurologic diseases. Major types include Diseases caused by faulty genes, such as Huntington's disease and muscular dystrophy Problems with the way the nervous system develops, such as spina bifida Degenerative diseases , where nerve cells are damaged or die, such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease Diseases of the blood vessels that supply the brain, such as stroke Injuries to the spinal cord and brain Seizure disorders, such as epilepsy Cancer, such as brain tumors infections, such as meningitis"
Neuromuscular Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/neuromusculardisorders.html,Neuromuscular disorders affect the nerves that control your voluntary muscles. Many are genetic. Read about different disorders and treatments.," Neuromuscular disorders affect your neuromuscular system. They can cause problems with The nerves that control your muscles Your muscles Communication between your nerves and muscles These disorders can cause your muscles to become weak and waste away. You may also have symptoms such as spasms, twitching, and pain. Examples of neuromuscular disorders include Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Muscular dystrophy Myasthenia gravis Spinal muscular atrophy There can be different causes for these diseases. Many of them are genetic.This means they are inherited (run in families) or are caused by a new mutation in your genes. Some neuromuscular disorders are autoimmune diseases . Sometimes the cause is unknown. Many neuromuscular diseases have no cure. But treatments may improve symptoms, increase mobility, and lengthen life."
Newborn Screening,https://medlineplus.gov/newbornscreening.html,Your newborn infant has screening tests before leaving the hospital. Get the facts about these tests and what you should expect.," Your newborn infant has screening tests before leaving the hospital. There may be different tests depending on the state where you live. They include Tests on a few drops of blood from pricking the baby's heel. The tests look for inherited disorders. All states test for at least 30 of these conditions. A hearing test that measures the baby's response to sound A skin test that measures the level of oxygen in the blood. This can tell if the baby has a congenital heart defect. These tests look for serious medical conditions. If not treated, some of these conditions can cause lifelong health problems. Others can cause early death. With early diagnosis, treatment can begin right away, before serious problems can occur or become permanent. If a screening shows that your baby might have a condition, the health care provider or the state health department will call you. It is important to follow up quickly. Further testing can verify whether your baby has the condition. If so, treatment should start right away. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Noise,https://medlineplus.gov/noise.html,Sounds that are too loud can damage sensitive structures of the inner ear and cause noise-induced hearing loss. Learn how to protect your hearing.," Noise is all around you, from televisions and radios to lawn mowers and washing machines. Normally, you hear these sounds at safe levels that don't affect hearing. But sounds that are too loud or loud sounds over a long time are harmful. They can damage sensitive structures of the inner ear and cause noise-induced hearing loss. More than 30 million Americans are exposed to hazardous sound levels on a regular basis. Hazardous sound levels are louder than 80 decibels. That's not as loud as traffic on a busy street. Listening to loud music, especially on headphones, is a common cause of noise-induced hearing loss. You can protect your hearing by Keeping the volume down when listening to music Wearing earplugs when using loud equipment NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Non-Drug Pain Management,https://medlineplus.gov/nondrugpainmanagement.html,"There are risks to taking pain medicines, especially opioids. Learn about different techniques and treatments which may help you manage your pain without taking medicines."," What is pain? Pain is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be sharp or dull. It may come and go, or it may be constant. You may feel pain in one area of your body, such as your back , abdomen , chest , pelvis , or you may feel pain all over. There are two types of pain: Acute pain usually comes on suddenly, because of a disease, injury, or inflammation. It can often be diagnosed and treated. It usually goes away, though sometimes it can turn into chronic pain . Chronic pain lasts for a long time, and can cause severe problems What are pain relievers? Pain relievers are medicines that reduce or relieve pain. There are many different pain medicines, and each one has advantages and risks. Some are over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. Others are stronger medicines, which are available by prescription. The most powerful prescription pain relievers are opioids. They are very effective, but people who take them are at risk of addiction and overdose . Because of the side effects and risks of pain relievers, you may want to try non-drug treatments first. And if you do need to take medicines, also doing some non-drug treatments may allow you to take a lower dose. What are some non-drug treatments for pain? There are many non-drug treatments that can help with pain. It is important to check with your health care provider before trying any of them: Acupuncture involves stimulating acupuncture points. These are specific points on your body. There are different acupuncture methods. The most common one involves inserting thin needles through the skin. Others include using pressure, electrical stimulation, and heat. Acupuncture is based on the belief that qi (vital energy) flows through the body along paths, called meridians. Practitioners believe that stimulating the acupuncture points can rebalance the qi. Research suggests that acupuncture can help manage certain pain conditions. Biofeedback techniques use electronic devices to measure body functions such as breathing and heart rate. This teaches you to be more aware of your body functions so you can learn to control them. For example, a biofeedback device may show you measurements of your muscle tension. By watching how these measurements change, you can become more aware of when your muscles are tense and learn to relax them. Biofeedback may help to control pain, including chronic headaches and back pain. Electrical stimulation involves using a device to send a gentle electric current to your nerves or muscles. This can help treat pain by interrupting or blocking the pain signals. Types include Transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS) Implanted electric nerve stimulation Deep brain or spinal cord stimulation Massage therapy is a treatment in which the soft tissues of the body are kneaded, rubbed, tapped, and stroked. Among other benefits, it may help people relax, and relieve stress and pain. Meditation is a mind-body practice in which you focus your attention on something, such as an object, word, phrase, or breathing. This helps you to minimize distracting or stressful thoughts or feelings. Physical therapy uses techniques such as heat, cold, exercise, massage, and manipulation. It can help to control pain, as well as condition muscles and restore strength. Psychotherapy (talk therapy) uses methods such as discussion, listening, and counseling to treat mental and behavioral disorders. It can also help people who have pain, especially chronic pain, by Teaching them coping skills, to be able to better deal with the stress that pain can cause Addressing negative thoughts and emotions that can make pain worse Providing them with support Relaxation therapy can help reduce muscle tension and stress, lower blood pressure, and control pain. It may involve tensing and relaxing muscles throughout the body. It may be used with guided imagery (focusing the mind on positive images) and meditation. Surgery can sometimes be necessary to treat severe pain, especially when it is caused by back problems or serious musculoskeletal injuries. There are always risks to getting surgery, and it does not always work to treat pain. So it is important to go through all of the risks and benefits with your health care provider."
Norovirus Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/norovirusinfections.html,Noroviruses are a group of related viruses that cause symptoms like nausea and diarrhea. Learn about the proper treatments for Norovirus Infections.," Noroviruses are a group of related viruses. Infection with these viruses causes an illness called gastroenteritis , an inflammation of the stomach and intestines. It can spread from person to person, or through contaminated food or water. You can also get it if you touch a contaminated surface. Norovirus can be serious, especially for young children and older adults. The most common symptoms of norovirus infection are Diarrhea Nausea and vomiting Stomach pain Other symptoms may include fever, headache or body aches. Treatment includes bed rest and lots of liquids to prevent dehydration . There is no specific medicine to treat norovirus infections. Proper hand washing and safe food preparation may help prevent infections. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Nose Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/noseinjuriesanddisorders.html,"There are many problems that can affect the nose including a deviated septum, nasal polyps, nosebleeds, rhinitis, and nasal fractures. Learn more."," Your nose is important to your health. It filters the air you breathe, removing dust, germs, and irritants. It warms and moistens the air to keep your lungs and tubes that lead to them from drying out. Your nose also contains the nerve cells that help your sense of smell. When there is a problem with your nose, your whole body can suffer. For example, the stuffy nose of the common cold can make it hard for you to breathe, sleep, or get comfortable. Many problems besides the common cold can affect the nose. They include Deviated septum - a shifting of the wall that divides the nasal cavity into halves Nasal polyps - soft growths that develop on the lining of your nose or sinuses Nosebleeds Rhinitis - inflammation of the nose and sinuses sometimes caused by allergies . The main symptom is a runny nose. Nasal fractures, also known as a broken nose"
Nuclear Scans,https://medlineplus.gov/nuclearscans.html,Nuclear scans use radioactive substances to see structures and functions inside your body. Read about how the test is used and what to expect.," Nuclear scans use radioactive substances to see structures and functions inside your body. They use a special camera that detects radioactivity. Before the test, you receive a small amount of radioactive material. You may get it as an injection. Sometimes you swallow it or inhale it. Then you lie still on a table while the camera makes images. Most scans take 20 to 45 minutes. Nuclear scans can help doctors diagnose many conditions, including cancers, injuries, and infections. They can also show how organs like your heart and lungs are working."
Nursing Homes,https://medlineplus.gov/nursinghomes.html,A nursing home is a place for people who don't need to be in a hospital but can't be cared for at home. Learn about choosing a nursing home.," A nursing home is a place for people who don't need to be in a hospital but can't be cared for at home. Most nursing homes have nursing aides and skilled nurses on hand 24 hours a day. Some nursing homes are set up like a hospital. The staff provides medical care, as well as physical, speech and occupational therapy. There might be a nurses' station on each floor. Other nursing homes try to be more like home. They try to have a neighborhood feel. Often, they don't have a fixed day-to-day schedule, and kitchens might be open to residents. Staff members are encouraged to develop relationships with residents. Some nursing homes have special care units for people with serious memory problems such as Alzheimer's disease . Some will let couples live together. Nursing homes are not only for older adults, but for anyone who requires 24-hour care. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Nutrition,https://medlineplus.gov/nutrition.html,Food provides the energy and nutrients you need to be healthy. It is important to eat a variety of foods to get all the nutrients you need. Read more.," Food provides the energy and nutrients you need to be healthy. Nutrients include proteins , carbohydrates , fats , vitamins , minerals , and water . Healthy eating is not hard. The key is to Eat a variety of foods, including vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products Eat lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, and low-fat dairy products Drink lots of water Limit salt , sugar, alcohol, saturated fat, and trans fat in your diet Saturated fats are usually fats that come from animals. Look for trans fat on the labels of processed foods, margarines, and shortenings. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Nutrition for Older Adults,https://medlineplus.gov/nutritionforolderadults.html,"Studies show that a good diet in your later years reduces risk of osteoporosis, high blood pressure, heart diseases and certain cancers. Read more."," What is nutrition and why is it important for older adults? Nutrition is about eating a healthy and balanced diet so your body gets the nutrients that it needs. Nutrients are substances in foods that our bodies need so they can function and grow. They include carbohydrates , fats , proteins , vitamins , minerals , and water. Good nutrition is important, no matter what your age. It gives you energy and can help you control your weight. It may also help prevent some diseases, such as osteoporosis , high blood pressure , heart disease , type 2 diabetes , and certain cancers. But as you age, your body and life change, and so does what you need to stay healthy. For example, you may need fewer calories, but you still need to get enough nutrients. Some older adults need more protein. What can make it harder for me to eat healthy as I age? Some changes that can happen as you age can make it harder for you to eat healthy. These include changes in your Home life, such as suddenly living alone or having trouble getting around Health, which can make it harder for you to cook or feed yourself Medicines, which can change how food tastes, make your mouth dry, or take away your appetite Income, which means that you may not have as much money for food Sense of smell and taste Problems chewing or swallowing your food How can I eat healthy as I age? To stay healthy as you age, you should Eat foods that give you lots of nutrients without a lot of extra calories , such as Fruits and vegetables (choose different types with bright colors) Whole grains, like oatmeal, whole-wheat bread, and brown rice Fat-free or low-fat milk and cheese, or soy or rice milk that has added vitamin D and calcium Seafood, lean meats, poultry, and eggs Beans, nuts, and seeds Avoid empty calories. These are foods with lots of calories but few nutrients, such as chips, candy, baked goods, soda, and alcohol. Pick foods that are low in cholesterol and fat. You especially want to try to avoid saturated and trans fats. Saturated fats are usually fats that come from animals. Trans fats are processed fats in stick margarine and vegetable shortening. You may find them in some store-bought baked goods and fried foods at some fast-food restaurants. Drink enough liquids , so you don't get dehydrated . Some people lose their sense of thirst as they age. And certain medicines might make it even more important to have plenty of fluids. Be physically active. If you have started losing your appetite, exercising may help you to feel hungrier. What can I do if I am having trouble eating healthy? Sometimes health issues or other problems can make it hard to eat healthy. Here are some tips that might help: If you are tired of eating alone, try organizing some potluck meals or cooking with a friend. You can also look into having some meals at a nearby senior center, community center, or religious facility. If you are having trouble chewing, see your dentist to check for problems If you are having trouble swallowing, try drinking plenty of liquids with your meal. If that does not help, check with your health care provider. A health condition or medicine could be causing the problem. If you're having trouble smelling and tasting your food, try adding color and texture to make your food more interesting If you aren't eating enough, add some healthy snacks throughout the day to help you get more nutrients and calories If an illness is making it harder for you to cook or feed yourself, check with your health care provider. He or she may recommend an occupational therapist, who can help you find ways to make it easier. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Nutritional Support,https://medlineplus.gov/nutritionalsupport.html,Nutritional support is therapy for people who do not get enough nourishment by eating or drinking. Read about the process of gaining nutrients.," Nutritional support is therapy for people who cannot get enough nourishment by eating or drinking. You may need it if you Can't swallow Have problems with your appetite Are severely malnourished Can't absorb nutrients through your digestive system You receive nutritional support through a needle or catheter placed in your vein or with a feeding tube, which goes into your stomach."
Obesity,https://medlineplus.gov/obesity.html,Read about the causes of obesity and find out what you can do to decrease your risk of its associated health issues.," Obesity means having too much body fat. It is different from being overweight, which means weighing too much. The weight may come from muscle, bone, fat, and/or body water. Both terms mean that a person's weight is greater than what's considered healthy for his or her height. Obesity happens over time when you eat more calories than you use. The balance between calories-in and calories-out differs for each person. Factors that might affect your weight include your genetic makeup, overeating, eating high-fat foods, and not being physically active. Obesity increases your risk of diabetes, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and some cancers. If you have obesity, losing even 5 to 10% of your weight can delay or prevent some of these diseases. For example, that means losing 10 to 20 pounds if you weigh 200 pounds. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Obesity in Children,https://medlineplus.gov/obesityinchildren.html,Obesity in children is hard to spot because they all grow at different rates. Find a list of tips that can help you monitor your child's health.," Obesity means having too much body fat. It is different from being overweight, which means weighing too much. Both terms mean that a person's weight is greater than what's considered healthy for his or her height. Children grow at different rates, so it isn't always easy to know when a child has obesity or is overweight. Ask your health care provider to check whether your child's weight and height are in a healthy range. If a weight-loss program is necessary, involve the whole family in healthy habits so your child doesn't feel singled out. Encourage healthy eating by Serving more fruits and vegetables Buying fewer soft drinks and high-fat, high-calorie snack foods Making sure your child eats breakfast every day Eating fast food less often Not using food as a reward Physical activity is also very important. Kids need about 60 minutes each day. It does not have to happen all at once. Several short periods of activity during the day are just as good. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/obsessivecompulsivedisorder.html,"People with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) suffer from frequent, upsetting thoughts called obsessions. Read about the treatments available."," What is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental disorder in which you have thoughts (obsessions) and rituals (compulsions) over and over. They interfere with your life, but you cannot control or stop them. What causes obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? The cause of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is unknown. Factors such as genetics, brain biology and chemistry, and your environment may play a role. Who is at risk for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) usually begins when you are a teen or young adult. Boys often develop OCD at a younger age than girls. Risk factors for OCD include Family history. People with a first-degree relative (such as a parent, sibling, or child) who has OCD are at higher risk. This is especially true if the relative developed OCD as a child or teen. Brain structure and functioning. Imaging studies have shown that people with OCD have differences in certain parts of the brain. Researchers need to do more studies to understand the connection between the brain differences and OCD. Childhood trauma, such as child abuse . Some studies have found a link between trauma in childhood and OCD. More research is needed to understand this relationship better. In some cases, children may develop OCD or OCD symptoms following a streptococcal infection . This is called Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal Infections (PANDAS). What are the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? People with OCD may have symptoms of obsessions, compulsions, or both: Obsessions are repeated thoughts, urges, or mental images that cause anxiety . They may involve things such as Fear of germs or contamination Fear of losing or misplacing something Worries about harm coming towards yourself or others Unwanted forbidden thoughts involving sex or religion Aggressive thoughts towards yourself or others Needing things lined up exactly or arranged in a particular, precise way Compulsions are behaviors that you feel like you need to do over and over to try to reduce your anxiety or stop the obsessive thoughts. Some common compulsions include Excessive cleaning and/or handwashing Repeatedly checking on things, such as whether the door is locked or the oven is off Compulsive counting Ordering and arranging things in a particular, precise way Some people with OCD also have a Tourette syndrome or another tic disorder. Tics are sudden twitches, movements, or sounds that people do repeatedly. People who have tics cannot stop their body from doing these things. How is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) diagnosed? The first step is to talk with your health care provider about your symptoms. Your provider should do an exam and ask you about your medical history. He or she needs to make sure that a physical problem is not causing your symptoms. If it seems to be a mental problem, your provider may refer you to a mental health specialist for further evaluation or treatment. Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) can sometimes be hard to diagnose. Its symptoms are like those of other mental disorders, such as anxiety disorders. It is also possible to have both OCD and another mental disorder. Not everyone who has obsessions or compulsions has OCD. Your symptoms would usually be considered OCD when you Can't control your thoughts or behaviors, even when you know that they are excessive Spend at least 1 hour a day on these thoughts or behaviors Don't get pleasure when performing the behaviors. But doing them may briefly give you relief from the anxiety that your thoughts cause. Have significant problems in your daily life because of these thoughts or behaviors What are the treatments for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? The main treatments for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are cognitive behavioral therapy, medicines, or both: Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy. It teaches you different ways of thinking, behaving, and reacting to the obsessions and compulsions. One specific type of CBT that can treat OCD is called Exposure and Response Prevention (EX/RP). EX/RP involves gradually exposing you to your fears or obsessions. You learn healthy ways to deal with the anxiety they cause. Medicines for OCD include certain types of antidepressants . If those don't work for you, your provider may suggest taking some other type of psychiatric medicine. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Occupational Health,https://medlineplus.gov/occupationalhealth.html,Occupational health problems vary from broken bones to vision problems. Take the following precautions to ensure safety on the job.," Occupational health problems occur at work or because of the kind of work you do. These problems can include Cuts, fractures (broken bones), and sprains and strains Loss of limbs Repetitive motion disorders Hearing problems caused by exposure to noise Vision problems Illness caused by breathing, touching, or swallowing unsafe substances Illness caused by exposure to radiation Exposure to germs in health care settings Good job safety and prevention practices can reduce your risk of these problems. Try to stay fit, reduce stress, set up your work area properly, and use the right equipment and gear."
Occupational Health for Health Care Providers,https://medlineplus.gov/occupationalhealthforhealthcareproviders.html,Healthcare workers are exposed to many hazards. Ensure that you have an occupational health plan for your healthcare providers with following tips.," Health care workers are exposed to many job hazards. These can include Infections Needle injuries Back injuries Allergy-causing substances Violence Stress Follow good job safety and injury prevention practices. They can reduce your risk of health problems. Use protective equipment, follow infection control guidelines, learn the right way to lift heavy objects, and find ways to manage stress. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health"
Oil Spills,https://medlineplus.gov/oilspills.html,Read about the environmental and economic effects of oil spills.," Oil spills often happen because of accidents, when people make mistakes or equipment breaks down. Other causes include natural disasters or deliberate acts. Oil spills have major environmental and economic effects. Oil spills can also affect human health . These effects can depend on what kind of oil was spilled and where (on land, in a river, or in the ocean). Other factors include what kind of exposure and how much exposure there was. People who clean up the spill are more at risk. Problems could include skin and eye irritation, neurologic and breathing problems, and stress. Not much is known about the long-term effects of oil spills."
Older Adult Health,https://medlineplus.gov/olderadulthealth.html,Older adult health deals with changes as we age. Having a healthy lifestyle helps you deal with changes in your body and mind to make the most of life.," People in the U.S. are living longer than ever before. Many older adults live active and healthy lives. But there's no getting around one thing: as we age, our bodies and minds change. You need to know what to expect. Some changes may just be part of normal aging, while others may be a warning sign of a medical problem. It is important to know the difference, and to let your health care provider know if you have any concerns. Having a healthy lifestyle can help you to deal with normal aging changes and make the most of your life. This includes healthy eating , regular physical activity , and making mental health a priority."
Older Adult Mental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/olderadultmentalhealth.html,"Older adult mental health includes emotional, psychological, and social well-being as we age. It affects how we think, feel, and act as we cope with life and aging. Learn more."," Mental health includes our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel, and act as we cope with life. It also helps determine how we handle stress, relate to others, and make choices. Mental health is important at every stage of life, including as we age. Many older adults are at risk for mental health problems. But this does not mean that mental health problems are a normal part of aging. Studies show that most older adults feel satisfied with their lives, even though they may have more illnesses or physical problems. Sometimes, however, important life changes can make you feel uneasy, stressed, and sad. These changes could include the death of a loved one, retirement, or dealing with a serious illness. Many older adults will eventually adjust to the changes. But some people will have more trouble adjusting. This can put them at risk for mental disorders such as depression and anxiety . It's important to recognize and treat mental disorders in older adults. These disorders don't just cause mental suffering. They can also make it harder for you to manage other health problems. This is especially true if those health problems are chronic. Some of the warning signs of mental disorders in older adults include Changes in mood or energy level A change in your eating or sleeping habits Withdrawing from the people and activities you enjoy Feeling unusually confused, forgetful, angry, upset, worried, or scared Feeling numb or like nothing matters Having unexplained aches and pains Feeling sadness or hopelessness Smoking, drinking, or using drugs more than usual Anger, irritability, or aggressiveness Having thoughts and memories that you can't get out of your head Hearing voices or believing things that are not true Thinking of harming yourself or others If you think that you may have a mental health problem, get help. Talk therapy and/or medicines can treat mental disorders. If you don't know where to start, contact your primary care provider."
Opioid Misuse and Addiction,https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddiction.html,"Opioid misuse and addiction are a serious public health problem in the U.S. Learn about the treatments, including medication-assisted therapy (MAT)."," Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong prescription pain relievers , such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. Some opioids are made from the opium plant, and others are synthetic (man-made). A doctor may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from health conditions like cancer. Some doctors prescribe them for chronic pain . Opioids can cause side effects such as drowsiness, mental fog, nausea, and constipation. They may also cause slowed breathing, which can lead to overdose deaths. If someone has signs of an overdose , call 911: The person's face is extremely pale and/or feels clammy to the touch Their body goes limp Their fingernails or lips have a purple or blue color They start vomiting or making gurgling noises They cannot be awakened or are unable to speak Their breathing or heartbeat slows or stops Other risks of using prescription opioids include dependence and addiction. Dependence means feeling withdrawal symptoms when not taking the drug. Addiction is a chronic brain disease that causes a person to compulsively seek out drugs, even though they cause harm. The risks of dependence and addiction are higher if you misuse the medicines . Misuse can include taking too much medicine, taking someone else's medicine, taking it in a different way than you are supposed to, or taking the medicine to get high. Opioid misuse, addiction, and overdoses are serious public health problems in the United States. Another problem is that more women are misusing opioids during pregnancy . This can lead to babies being addicted and going through withdrawal, known as neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). Opioid misuse may sometimes also lead to heroin use, because some people switch from prescription opioids to heroin. The main treatment for prescription opioid addiction is medication-assisted treatment (MAT). It includes medicines, counseling, and support from family and friends. MAT can help you stop using the drug, get through withdrawal, and cope with cravings. There is also a medicine called naloxone which can reverse the effects of an opioid overdose and prevent death, if it is given in time. To prevent problems with prescription opioids , be sure to follow your doctor's instructions when taking them. Do not share your medicines with anyone else. Contact your doctor if you have any concerns about taking the medicines. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment,https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddictiontreatment.html,"Opioid misuse and addiction are serious problems. Treatments include medicines and counseling. Combining these two treatments, which is called medication-assisted therapy (MAT), can increase your chance of a successful recovery."," What are opioids? Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong prescription pain relievers , such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe them for chronic pain . Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, opioid misuse and addiction are still potential risks. What are opioid misuse and addiction? Opioid misuse means you are not taking the medicines according to your provider's instructions, you are using them to get high, or you are taking someone else's opioids. Addiction is a chronic brain disease. It causes you to compulsively seek out drugs even though they cause you harm. What are the treatments for opioid misuse and addiction? Treatments for opioid misuse and addiction include Medicines Counseling and behavioral therapies Medication-assisted therapy (MAT), which includes medicines, counseling, and behavioral therapies. This offers a ""whole patient"" approach to treatment, which can increase your chance of a successful recovery. Residential and hospital-based treatment Which medicines treat opioid misuse and addiction? The medicines used to treat opioid misuse and addiction are methadone, buprenorphine, and naltrexone. Methadone and buprenorphine can decrease withdrawal symptoms and cravings. They work by acting on the same targets in the brain as other opioids, but they do not make you feel high. Some people worry that if they take methadone or buprenorphine, it means that they are substituting one addiction for another. But it is not; these medicines are a treatment. They restore balance to the parts of the brain affected by addiction. This allows your brain to heal while you work toward recovery. There is also a combination drug that includes buprenorphine and naloxone. Naloxone is a drug to treat an opioid overdose . If you take it along with buprenorphine, you will be less likely to misuse the buprenorphine. You may safely take these medicines for months, years, or even a lifetime. If you want to stop taking them, do not do it on your own. You should contact your health care provider first, and work out a plan for stopping. Naltrexone works differently than methadone and buprenorphine. It does not help you with withdrawal symptoms or cravings. Instead, it takes away the high that you would normally get when you take opioids. Because of this, you would take naltrexone to prevent a relapse, not to try to get off opioids. You have to be off opioids for at least 7-10 days before you can take naltrexone. Otherwise you could have bad withdrawal symptoms. How does counseling treat opioid misuse and addiction? Counseling for opioid misuse and addiction can help you Change your attitudes and behaviors related to drug use Build healthy life skills Stick with other forms of treatment, such as medicines There are different types of counseling to treat opioid misuse and addiction, including Individual counseling , which may include setting goals, talking about setbacks, and celebrating progress. You may also talk about legal concerns and family problems. Counseling often includes specific behavioral therapies, such as Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) helps you recognize and stop negative patterns of thinking and behavior. It teaches you coping skills, including how to manage stress and change the thoughts that cause you to want to misuse opioids. Motivational enhancement therapy helps you build up motivation to stick with your treatment plan Contingency management focuses on giving you incentives for positive behaviors such as staying off the opioids Group counseling , which can help you feel that you are not alone with your issues. You get a chance to hear about the difficulties and successes of others who have the same challenges. This can help you to learn new strategies for dealing with the situations you may come across. Family counseling/ includes partners or spouses and other family members who are close to you. It can help to repair and improve your family relationships. Counselors can also refer you to other resources that you might need, such as Peer support groups, including 12-step programs like Narcotics Anonymous Spiritual and faith-based groups HIV testing and hepatitis screening Case or care management Employment or educational supports Organizations that help you find housing or transportation What are residential and hospital-based treatments for opioid misuse and addiction? Residential programs combine housing and treatment services. You are living with your peers, and you can support each other to stay in recovery. Inpatient hospital-based programs combine health care and addiction treatment services for people with medical problems. Hospitals may also offer intensive outpatient treatment. All these types of treatments are very structured, and usually include several different kinds of counseling and behavioral therapies. They also often include medicines."
Opioid Overdose,https://medlineplus.gov/opioidoverdose.html,"Opioids affect the part of the brain that regulates breathing. When people take high doses of opioids, it can lead to an overdose, with the slowing or stopping of breathing and sometimes death. Learn how to prevent and treat opioid overdoses."," What are opioids? Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong prescription pain relievers , such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe them for chronic pain . Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, people who take opioids are at risk for opioid dependence and addiction , as well as an overdose. These risks increase when opioids are misused. Misuse means you are not taking the medicines according to your provider's instructions, you are using them to get high, or you are taking someone else's opioids. What is an opioid overdose? Opioids affect the part of the brain that regulates breathing. When people take high doses of opioids, it can lead to an overdose, with the slowing or stopping of breathing and sometimes death. What causes an opioid overdose? An opioid overdose can happen for a variety of reasons, including if you Take an opioid to get high Take an extra dose of a prescription opioid or take it too often (either accidentally or on purpose) Mix an opioid with other medicines, illegal drugs, or alcohol. An overdose can be fatal when mixing an opioid and certain anxiety treatment medicines, such as Xanax or Valium. Take an opioid medicine that was prescribed for someone else. Children are especially at risk of an accidental overdose if they take medicine not intended for them. There is also a risk of overdose if you are getting medication-assisted treatment (MAT). MAT is a treatment for opioid abuse and addiction . Many of the medicines used for MAT are controlled substances that can be misused. Who is at risk for an opioid overdose? Anyone who takes an opioid can be at risk of an overdose, but you are at higher risk if you Take illegal opioids Take more opioid medicine than you are prescribed Combine opioids with other medicines and/or alcohol Have certain medical conditions, such as sleep apnea , or reduced kidney or liver function Are over 65 years old What are the signs of an opioid overdose? The signs of an opioid overdose include The person's face is extremely pale and/or feels clammy to the touch Their body goes limp Their fingernails or lips have a purple or blue color They start vomiting or making gurgling noises They cannot be awakened or are unable to speak Their breathing or heartbeat slows or stops What should I do if I think that someone is having an opioid overdose? If you think someone is having an opioid overdose, Call 9-1-1 immediately Administer naloxone, if it is available. Naloxone is a safe medication that can quickly stop an opioid overdose. It can be injected into the muscle or sprayed into the nose to rapidly block the effects of the opioid on the body. Try to keep the person awake and breathing Lay the person on their side to prevent choking Stay with the person until emergency workers arrive Can an opioid overdose be prevented? There are steps you can take to help prevent an overdose: Take your medicine exactly as prescribed by your health care provider. Do not take more medicine at once or take medicine more often than you are supposed to. Never mix pain medicines with alcohol, sleeping pills, or illegal substances Store medicine safely where children or pets can't reach it. Consider using a medicine lockbox. Besides keeping children safe, it also prevents someone who lives with you or visits your house from stealing your medicines. Dispose of unused medicine promptly If you take an opioid, it is also important to teach your family and friends how to respond to an overdose. If you are at high risk for an overdose, ask your health care provider about whether you need a prescription for naloxone."
Optic Nerve Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/opticnervedisorders.html,Your optic nerves carries visual images from the back of your eye to your brain. Learn about optic nerve disorders and how they affect your vision.," The optic nerve is a bundle of more than 1 million nerve fibers that carry visual messages. You have one connecting the back of each eye (your retina ) to your brain. Damage to an optic nerve can cause vision loss . The type of vision loss and how severe it is depends on where the damage occurs. It may affect one or both eyes. There are many different types of optic nerve disorders, including: Glaucoma is a group of diseases that are the leading cause of blindness in the United States. Glaucoma usually happens when the fluid pressure inside the eyes slowly rises and damages the optic nerve. Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve. Causes include infections and immune-related illnesses such as multiple sclerosis . Sometimes the cause is unknown. Optic nerve atrophy is damage to the optic nerve. Causes include poor blood flow to the eye, disease, trauma, or exposure to toxic substances. Optic nerve head drusen are pockets of protein and calcium salts that build up in the optic nerve over time Contact your health care provider if you are having vision problems. Tests for optic nerve disorders may include eye exams, ophthalmoscopy (an examination of the back of your eye), and imaging tests . Treatment depends on which disorder that you have. With some optic nerve disorders, you may get your vision back. With others, there is no treatment, or treatment may only prevent further vision loss."
Oral Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/oralcancer.html,Oral cancer can form in the mouth orthroat but usually begins in the tongue and floor of the mouth. Read about the common oral cancer symptoms.," Oral cancer can form in any part of the mouth. Most oral cancers begin in the flat cells that cover the surfaces of your mouth, tongue, and lips. Anyone can get oral cancer, but the risk is higher if you are male, use tobacco, drink lots of alcohol, have HPV , or have a history of head or neck cancer . Frequent sun exposure is also a risk factor for lip cancer. Symptoms of oral cancer include White or red patches in your mouth A mouth sore that won't heal Bleeding in your mouth Loose teeth Problems or pain with swallowing A lump in your neck An earache Tests to diagnose oral cancer include a physical exam, endoscopy , biopsy, and imaging tests. Oral cancer treatments may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Some patients have a combination of treatments. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Organ Donation,https://medlineplus.gov/organdonation.html,Experts say that the organs from one donor can save or help as many as 50 people. Read about the how to become an organ donor.," Organ donation takes healthy organs and tissues from one person for transplantation into another. Experts say that the organs from one donor can save or help as many as 50 people. Organs you can donate include Internal organs: Kidneys, heart, liver, pancreas, intestines, lungs Skin Bone and bone marrow Cornea Most organ and tissue donations occur after the donor has died. But some organs and tissues can be donated while the donor is alive. People of all ages and background can be organ donors. If you are under age 18, your parent or guardian must give you permission to become a donor. If you are 18 or older you can show you want to be a donor by signing a donor card. You should also let your family know your wishes. Health Resources and Services Administration"
Organ Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/organtransplantation.html,"When you have an organ transplant, doctors remove an organ from another person and place it in your body. Read about the common organ transplants."," You may need an organ transplant if one of your organs has failed. This can happen because of illness or injury. When you have an organ transplant, doctors remove an organ from another person and place it in your body. The organ may come from a living donor or a donor who has died. The organs that can be transplanted include Heart Intestine Kidney Liver Lung Pancreas You often have to wait a long time for an organ transplant. Doctors must match donors to recipients to reduce the risk of transplant rejection. Rejection happens when your immune system attacks the new organ. If you have a transplant, you must take drugs the rest of your life to help keep your body from rejecting the new organ."
Orthodontia,https://medlineplus.gov/orthodontia.html,Orthodontia such as braces deals with teeth and jaw abnormalities. Read about the benefits of orthodontia which include teeth straightening and more.," Some people have naturally straight teeth that fit together. But if you have problems with your bite or the spacing of your teeth, you may need orthodontic care. Orthodontia is the branch of dentistry that deals with abnormalities of the teeth and jaw. Orthodontic care involves the use of devices, such as braces, to Straighten teeth Correct problems with bite Close gaps between teeth Align lips and teeth properly Most people who receive orthodontic care are kids, but adults get braces, too. In young children, orthodontic treatment may guide proper jaw growth. This can help permanent teeth to come in properly. Straight permanent teeth can help prevent tooth problems later on."
Osteoarthritis,https://medlineplus.gov/osteoarthritis.html,"Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. It usually affects your hands, knees, hips, or spine. Learn about treatment and management."," Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis . It causes pain, swelling, and reduced motion in your joints. It can occur in any joint, but usually it affects your hands, knees, hips or spine. Osteoarthritis breaks down the cartilage in your joints. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint. Healthy cartilage absorbs the shock of movement. When you lose cartilage, your bones rub together. Over time, this rubbing can permanently damage the joint. Risk factors for osteoarthritis include Being overweight Getting older Injuring a joint There is no specific test for osteoarthritis. Most doctors use several methods, including medical history, a physical exam, x-rays, or lab tests. Treatments include exercise, medicines, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Osteogenesis Imperfecta,https://medlineplus.gov/osteogenesisimperfecta.html,"Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder in which bones break easily. Find out diagnosis, treatments, and living with OI."," Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder in which bones fracture (break) easily. Sometimes the fractures happen for no known reason. OI can also cause weak muscles, brittle teeth, a curved spine, and hearing loss. OI is caused by one of several genes that aren't working properly. When these genes don't work, it affects how you make collagen, a protein that helps make bones strong. OI can range from mild to severe, and symptoms vary from person to person. A person may have just a few or as many as several hundred fractures in a lifetime. There is no specific test for OI. Your doctor uses your medical and family history, physical exam, and imaging and lab tests to diagnose it. Your doctor may also test your collagen (from skin) or genes (from blood). There is no cure, but you can manage symptoms. Treatments include exercise, pain medicine, physical therapy, wheelchairs, braces, and surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Osteonecrosis,https://medlineplus.gov/osteonecrosis.html,"Osteonecrosis (Avascular Necrosis) is marked by a loss of blood supply to the bones, causing bone to break down faster than the body make new bone. "," Osteonecrosis is a disease caused by reduced blood flow to bones in the joints. In people with healthy bones, new bone is always replacing old bone. In osteonecrosis, the lack of blood causes the bone to break down faster than the body can make enough new bone. The bone starts to die and may break down. You can have osteonecrosis in one or several bones. It is most common in the upper leg. Other common sites are your upper arm and your knees, shoulders and ankles. The disease can affect men and women of any age, but it usually strikes in your thirties, forties or fifties. At first, you might not have any symptoms. As the disease gets worse, you will probably have joint pain that becomes more severe. You may not be able to bend or move the affected joint very well. No one is sure what causes the disease. Risk factors include Long-term steroid treatment Alcohol misuse Joint injuries Having certain diseases, including arthritis and cancer Doctors use imaging tests and other tests to diagnose osteonecrosis. Treatments include medicines, using crutches, limiting activities that put weight on the affected joints, electrical stimulation and surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Osteoporosis,https://medlineplus.gov/osteoporosis.html,Osteoporosis is a disease that weakens bones and makes them more likely to break. Learn about the risk factors linked to Osteoporosis. ," Osteoporosis is a disease that thins and weakens the bones. Your bones become fragile and fracture (break) easily, especially the bones in the hip, spine, and wrist. In the United States, millions of people either already have osteoporosis or are at high risk due to low bone mass. Anyone can develop osteoporosis, but it is more common in older women. Risk factors include Getting older Being small and thin Having a family history of osteoporosis Taking certain medicines Being a white or Asian woman Having low bone density Osteoporosis is a silent disease. You might not know you have it until you break a bone. A bone mineral density test is the best way to check your bone health. To keep bones strong, eat a diet rich in calcium and vitamin D , exercise, and do not smoke. If needed, medicines can also help. It is also important to try to avoid falling down . Falls are the number one cause of fractures in older adults. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Ostomy,https://medlineplus.gov/ostomy.html,An ostomy treats certain diseases of the digestive or urinary systems. Learn about different types of ostomy including colostomy and ileostomy ," An ostomy is surgery to create an opening (stoma) from an area inside the body to the outside. It treats certain diseases of the digestive or urinary systems. It can be permanent, when an organ must be removed. It can be temporary, when the organ needs time to heal. The organ could be the small intestine, colon, rectum, or bladder. With an ostomy, there must be a new way for wastes to leave the body. There are many different types of ostomy. Some examples are Ileostomy - the bottom of the small intestine (ileum) is attached to the stoma. This bypasses the colon, rectum and anus. Colostomy - the colon is attached to the stoma. This bypasses the rectum and the anus. Urostomy - the tubes that carry urine to the bladder are attached to the stoma. This bypasses the bladder. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Ovarian Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/ovariancancer.html,Ovarian cancer is hard to detect early. Women with ovarian cancer may have no symptoms or mild symptoms until the disease is in an advanced stage.," The ovaries are part of the female reproductive system. They produce a woman's eggs and female hormones. Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. Cancer of the ovary is not common, but it causes more deaths than other female reproductive cancers. The sooner ovarian cancer is found and treated, the better your chance for recovery. But ovarian cancer is hard to detect early. Women with ovarian cancer may have no symptoms or just mild symptoms until the disease is in an advanced stage. Then it is hard to treat. Symptoms may include A heavy feeling in the pelvis Pain in the lower abdomen Bleeding from the vagina Weight gain or loss Abnormal periods Unexplained back pain that gets worse Gas, nausea, vomiting, or loss of appetite To diagnose ovarian cancer, doctors do one or more tests. They include a physical exam, a pelvic exam, lab tests, ultrasound, or a biopsy. Treatment is usually surgery followed by chemotherapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Ovarian Cysts,https://medlineplus.gov/ovariancysts.html,An ovarian cyst is a fluid-filled sac in or on the ovary. Most women have them sometime in their lives. Cysts are rarely cancerous in women under 50.," The ovaries are part of the female reproductive system. They produce a woman's eggs and make female hormones . Ovarian cysts are fluid-filled sacs in or on an ovary. They usually form during ovulation, when the ovary releases an egg. They are usually harmless and go away by themselves. Most women have them sometime during their lives. Most ovarian cysts are small and don't cause symptoms. Women may not find out that they have them until they have a pelvic exam. If there are symptoms, they may include Pressure Bloating Swelling Pain in the lower abdomen, on the side where the cyst is If your health care provider finds a cyst, you may be able to wait to see if it gets bigger. You may need surgery if you have pain, are past menopause, or if the cyst does not go away. If a cyst bursts or causes bleeding, you should get medical help right away. Birth control pills can help prevent new cysts. Rarely, ovarian cysts can become cancerous. This risk increases as you get older. A health problem that involves ovarian cysts is polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Women with PCOS can have high levels of male hormones, irregular or no periods, and small ovarian cysts. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Ovarian Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/ovariandisorders.html,"Ovarian disorders that affect women's health include cancer, cysts, polycystic ovary syndrome, and ovarian torsion. Learn more about ovarian health."," The ovaries are part of the female reproductive system. Women have two ovaries, one on each side of the uterus. Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. The ovaries produce and store a woman's eggs. During ovulation, an ovary releases an egg. If that egg is fertilized by a sperm, a pregnancy can occur. Ovaries also make the female hormones estrogen and progesterone. When a woman goes through menopause , her ovaries stop making those hormones and releasing eggs. Problems with the ovaries include Ovarian cancer Ovarian cysts and polycystic ovary syndrome Primary ovarian insufficiency Ovarian torsion, a twisting of the ovary"
Over-the-Counter Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/overthecountermedicines.html,Over-the-counter medicines differ from prescription medicines but offer the same benefits. Find out how to use them properly.," Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines are drugs you can buy without a prescription. Some OTC medicines relieve aches, pains, and itches. Some prevent or cure diseases, like tooth decay and athlete's foot. Others help manage recurring problems, like migraines and allergies. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration decides whether a medicine is safe and effective enough to sell over-the-counter. This allows you to take a more active role in your health care. But you also need to be careful to avoid mistakes . Make sure to follow the instructions on the drug label. If you don't understand the instructions, ask your pharmacist or health care provider. Also keep in mind that that there are still risks to taking OTC medicines: The medicine you are taking could interact with other medicines, supplements, foods, or drinks Some medicines are not right for people with certain medical conditions. For example, people with high blood pressure should not take certain decongestants. Some people are allergic to certain medicines Many medicines are not safe during pregnancy . If you are pregnant, check with your health care provider before taking any medicine. Be careful when giving medicines to children . Make sure that you give your child the correct dose. If you are giving your child a liquid medicine, don't use a kitchen spoon. Instead use a measuring spoon or a dosing cup marked in teaspoons. If you have been taking an OTC medicine but your symptoms don't go away, contact your health care provider. You should not take OTC medicines longer or in higher doses than the label recommends. Food and Drug Administration"
Overactive Bladder,https://medlineplus.gov/overactivebladder.html,An overactive bladder (or polyuria) will cause you to urinate 8 or more times a day or 2 or more times a night. Read about the treatment available," Overactive bladder is a condition in which the bladder squeezes urine out at the wrong time. You may have overactive bladder if you have two or more of these symptoms: You urinate eight or more times a day or two or more times at night You have the sudden, strong need to urinate immediately You leak urine after a sudden, strong urge to urinate You also may have incontinence , a loss of bladder control. Nerve problems, too much fluid, or too much caffeine can cause it. Often the cause is unknown. Your doctor may prescribe a medicine that can calm muscles and nerves. The medicine may come as a pill, a liquid, or a patch. The medicines can cause your eyes to become dry. They can also cause dry mouth and constipation. To deal with these effects, use eye drops to keep your eyes moist, chew sugarless gum or suck on sugarless hard candy if dry mouth bothers you, and take small sips of water throughout the day. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Oxygen Therapy,https://medlineplus.gov/oxygentherapy.html,Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides extra oxygen. A different kind of oxygen therapy is called hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Find out more. ," What is oxygen? Oxygen is a gas that your body needs to work properly. Your cells need oxygen to make energy. Your lungs absorb oxygen from the air you breathe. The oxygen enters your blood from your lungs and travels to your organs and body tissues. Certain medical conditions can cause your blood oxygen levels to be too low. Low blood oxygen may make you feel short of breath , tired, or confused. It can also damage your body. Oxygen therapy can help you get more oxygen. What is oxygen therapy? Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides you with extra oxygen to breathe in. It is also called supplemental oxygen. It is only available through a prescription from your health care provider. You may get it in the hospital, another medical setting, or at home. Some people only need it for a short period of time. Others will need long-term oxygen therapy. There are different types of devices that can give you oxygen. Some use tanks of liquid or gas oxygen. Others use an oxygen concentrator, which pulls oxygen out of the air. You will get the oxygen through a nose tube (cannula), a mask, or a tent. The extra oxygen is breathed in along with normal air. There are portable versions of the tanks and oxygen concentrators. They can make it easier for you to move around while using your therapy. Who needs oxygen therapy? You may need oxygen therapy if you have a condition that causes low blood oxygen, such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) Pneumonia COVID-19 A severe asthma attack Late-stage heart failure Cystic fibrosis Sleep apnea What are the risks of using oxygen therapy? Oxygen therapy is generally safe, but it can cause side effects. They include a dry or bloody nose, tiredness, and morning headaches. Oxygen poses a fire risk, so you should never smoke or use flammable materials when using oxygen. If you use oxygen tanks, make sure your tank is secured and stays upright. If it falls and cracks or the top breaks off, the tank can fly like a missile. What is hyperbaric oxygen therapy? Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) is a different type of oxygen therapy. It involves breathing oxygen in a pressurized chamber or tube. This allows your lungs to gather up to three times more oxygen than you would get by breathing oxygen at normal air pressure. The extra oxygen moves through your blood and to your organs and body tissues. HBOT is used to treat certain serious wounds , burns , injuries, and infections. It also treats air or gas embolisms (bubbles of air in your bloodstream), decompression sickness suffered by divers, and carbon monoxide poisoning . But some treatment centers claim that HBOT can treat almost anything, including HIV/AIDS , Alzheimer's disease , autism , and cancer . The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not cleared or approved the use of HBOT for these conditions. There are risks to using HBOT, so always check with your primary health care provider before you try it. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Ozone,https://medlineplus.gov/ozone.html,Ozone is a gas that can be good or bad. Good ozone is 10-30 miles above Earth's surface while bad ozone is at ground level. Read more about both.," Ozone is a gas. It can be good or bad, depending on where it is. ""Good"" ozone occurs naturally about 10 to 30 miles above the Earth's surface. It shields us from the sun's ultraviolet rays. Part of the good ozone layer is gone. Man-made chemicals have destroyed it. Without enough good ozone, people may get too much ultraviolet radiation. This may increase the risk of skin cancer, cataracts, and immune system problems. ""Bad"" ozone is at ground level. It forms when pollutants from cars, factories, and other sources react chemically with sunlight. It is the main ingredient in smog . It is usually worst in the summer. Breathing bad ozone can be harmful. It can cause coughing, throat irritation, worsening of asthma , bronchitis, and emphysema . It can lead to permanent lung damage, if you are regularly exposed to it. Environmental Protection Agency"
Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators,https://medlineplus.gov/pacemakersandimplantabledefibrillators.html,"Pacemakers and implantable defibrillators are devices that monitor and help control abnormal heart rhythms. Learn who needs one, and how they work."," An arrhythmia is any disorder of your heart rate or rhythm. It means that your heart beats too quickly, too slowly, or with an irregular pattern. Most arrhythmias result from problems in the electrical system of the heart. If your arrhythmia is serious, you may need a cardiac pacemaker or an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). They are devices that are implanted in your chest or abdomen. A pacemaker helps control abnormal heart rhythms. It uses electrical pulses to prompt the heart to beat at a normal rate. It can speed up a slow heart rhythm, control a fast heart rhythm, and coordinate the chambers of the heart. An ICD monitors heart rhythms. If it senses dangerous rhythms, it delivers shocks. This treatment is called defibrillation. An ICD can help control life-threatening arrhythmias, especially those that can cause sudden cardiac arrest (SCA). Most new ICDs can act as both a pacemaker and a defibrillator. Many ICDs also record the heart's electrical patterns when there is an abnormal heartbeat. This can help the doctor plan future treatment. Getting a pacemaker or ICD requires minor surgery. You usually need to stay in the hospital for a day or two, so your doctor can make sure that the device is working well. You will probably be back to your normal activities within a few days."
Paget's Disease of Bone,https://medlineplus.gov/pagetsdiseaseofbone.html,Paget's disease of bone causes your bones to grow too large and weak. It can cause pain and damage in the bones. Learn more.," What is Paget's disease of bone? Paget's disease of bone is a chronic bone disorder. Normally, there is a process in which your bones break down and then regrow. In Paget's disease, this process is abnormal. There is excessive breakdown and regrowth of bone. Because the bones regrow too quickly, they are bigger and softer than normal. They may be misshapen and easily fractured (broken). Paget's usually affects just one or a few bones. What causes Paget's disease of bone? Researchers do not know for sure what causes Paget's disease. Environmental factors may play a role. In some cases, the disease runs in families, and several genes have been linked to the disease. Who is at risk for Paget's disease of bone? The disease is more common in older people and those of northern European heritage. If you have a close relative who has Paget's, you are much more likely to have it. What are the symptoms of Paget's disease of bone? Many people do not know that they have Paget's, because it often has no symptoms. When there are symptoms, they are similar to those of arthritis and other disorders. The symptoms include Pain , which may be due to the disease or to arthritis, which can be a complication of Paget's Headaches and hearing loss , which can happen when Paget's disease affects the skull Pressure on the nerves , which can happen when Paget's disease affects the skull or spine Increased head size, bowing of a limb, or curvature of the spine. This can happen in advanced cases. Hip pain , if Paget's disease affects the pelvis or thighbone Damage to the cartilage of your joints , which may lead to arthritis Usually, Paget's disease gets worse slowly over time. It does not spread to normal bones. What other problems can Paget's disease of bone cause? Paget's disease can lead to other complications, such as Arthritis, because the misshapen bones can cause increased pressure and more wear and tear on the joints Heart failure . In severe Paget's disease, the heart has to work harder to pump blood to affected bones. Heart failure is more likely if you also have hardening of the arteries . Kidney stones , which can happen when the excessive breakdown of the bone leads to extra calcium in the body Nervous system problems , since the bones can cause pressure on the brain, spinal cord, or nerves. There may also be reduced blood flow to the brain and spinal cord. Osteosarcoma, cancer of the bone Loose teeth, if Paget's disease affects the facial bones Vision loss , if Paget's disease in the skull affects the nerves. This is rare. How is Paget's disease of bone diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take your medical history and ask about your symptoms Will do a physical exam Will do an x-ray of the affected bones. Paget's disease is almost always diagnosed using x-rays. May do an alkaline phosphatase blood test May do a bone scan Sometimes the disease is found by accident when one of these tests is done for another reason. What are the treatments for Paget's disease of bone? To avoid complications, it is important to find and treat Paget's disease early. The treatments include Medicines. There are several different medicines to treat Paget's disease. The most common type is bisphosphonates. They help reduce bone pain and stop or slow down the progress of the disease. Surgery is sometimes needed for certain complications of the disease. There are surgeries to Allow fractures (broken bones) to heal in a better position Replace joints such as the knee and hip when there is severe arthritis Realign a deformed bone to reduce the pain in weight-bearing joints, especially the knees Reduce pressure on a nerve, if enlargement of the skull or spine injuries effects the nervous system Diet and exercise do not treat Paget's, but they can help to keep your skeleton healthy. If you do not have kidney stones, you should make sure to get enough calcium and vitamin D through your diet and supplements. Besides keeping your skeleton healthy, exercise can prevent weight gain and maintain the mobility of your joints. Talk with your health care provider before you start a new exercise program. You need to make sure that the exercise does not put too much stress on the affected bones. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/pain.html,"Pain is a feeling triggered in the nervous system. You may feel it as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Read about the causes and what can help."," Pain is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be sharp or dull. It may come and go, or it may be constant. You may feel pain in one area of your body, such as your back , abdomen , chest , pelvis , or you may feel pain all over. Pain can be helpful in diagnosing a problem. If you never felt pain, you might seriously hurt yourself without knowing it, or you might not realize you have a medical problem that needs treatment. There are two types of pain: acute and chronic . Acute pain usually comes on suddenly, because of a disease, injury, or inflammation. It can often be diagnosed and treated. It usually goes away, though sometimes it can turn into chronic pain. Chronic pain lasts for a long time, and can cause severe problems. Pain is not always curable, but there are many ways to treat it. Treatment depends on the cause and type of pain. There are drug treatments, including pain relievers . There are also non-drug treatments , such as acupuncture , physical therapy, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Pain Relievers,https://medlineplus.gov/painrelievers.html,There are many pain relievers available. Read about over-the-counter vs. prescribed pain killers and how each might affect your health.," Pain relievers are medicines that reduce or relieve headaches, sore muscles, arthritis, or other aches and pains . There are many different pain medicines, and each one has advantages and risks. Some types of pain respond better to certain medicines than others. Each person may also have a slightly different response to a pain reliever. Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines are good for many types of pain. There are two main types of OTC pain medicines: acetaminophen (Tylenol) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Aspirin, naproxen (Aleve), and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) are examples of OTC NSAIDs. If OTC medicines don't relieve your pain, your doctor may prescribe something stronger. Many NSAIDs are also available at higher prescription doses. The most powerful pain relievers are opioids . They are very effective, but they can sometimes have serious side effects. There is also a risk of opioids . Because of the risks, you must use them only under a doctor's supervision. There are many things you can do to help ease pain. Pain relievers are just one part of a pain treatment plan."
Palliative Care,https://medlineplus.gov/palliativecare.html,Palliative care helps relieve pain associated with a serious illness. You can receive this care at any stage of illness for the following symptoms.," Palliative care is treatment of the discomfort, symptoms, and stress of serious illness. It provides relief from distressing symptoms including Pain Shortness of breath Fatigue Constipation Nausea Loss of appetite Problems with sleep It can also help you deal with the side effects of the medical treatments you're receiving. Hospice care , care at the end of life, always includes palliative care. But you may receive palliative care at any stage of an illness. The goal is to make you comfortable and improve your quality of life. NIH: National Institute of Nursing Research"
Pancreas Transplantation,https://medlineplus.gov/pancreastransplantation.html,A pancreas transplant is surgery to place a healthy pancreas from a donor into a person with a diseased pancreas. Learn more.," The pancreas is a gland behind your stomach and in front of your spine. It produces the juices that help break down food and the hormones that help control blood sugar levels. A pancreas transplant is surgery to place a healthy pancreas from a donor into a person with a diseased pancreas. It is mostly done for people with severe type 1 diabetes . It can allow them to give up insulin shots. An experimental procedure called islet cell transplantation transplants only the parts of the pancreas that make insulin. People who have transplants must take drugs to keep their body from rejecting the new pancreas for the rest of their lives. They must also have regular follow-up care. Because of the risks, it is not a common treatment for type 1 diabetes."
Pancreatic Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/pancreaticcancer.html,The pancreas is a gland behind your stomach that produces insulin. Pancreatic cancer is hard to catch early. Find out about risk factors and symptoms.," The pancreas is a gland behind your stomach and in front of your spine. It produces the juices that help break down food and the hormones that help control blood sugar levels. Pancreatic cancer usually begins in the cells that produce the juices. Some risk factors for developing pancreatic cancer include Smoking Long-term diabetes Chronic pancreatitis Certain hereditary disorders Pancreatic cancer is hard to catch early. It doesn't cause symptoms right away. When you do get symptoms, they are often vague or you may not notice them. They include yellowing of the skin and eyes, pain in the abdomen and back, weight loss and fatigue. Also, because the pancreas is hidden behind other organs, health care providers cannot see or feel the tumors during routine exams. Doctors use a physical exam, blood tests, imaging tests, and a biopsy to diagnose it. Because it is often found late and it spreads quickly, pancreatic cancer can be hard to treat. Possible treatments include surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Pancreatic Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/pancreaticdiseases.html,"Pancreatic diseases include pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, and cystic fibrosis. The pancreas also plays a role in type 1 and type 2 diabetes."," The pancreas is a gland behind your stomach and in front of your spine. It produces juices that help break down food and hormones that help control blood sugar levels. Problems with the pancreas can lead to many health problems. These include Pancreatitis , or inflammation of the pancreas: This happens when digestive enzymes start digesting the pancreas itself Pancreatic cancer Cystic fibrosis , a genetic disorder in which thick, sticky mucus can also block tubes in your pancreas The pancreas also plays a role in diabetes. In type 1 diabetes , the beta cells of the pancreas no longer make insulin because the body's immune system has attacked them. In type 2 diabetes , the pancreas loses the ability to secrete enough insulin in response to meals."
Pancreatitis,https://medlineplus.gov/pancreatitis.html,Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. Pancreatitis can be acute or chronic. Learn about pancreatitis symptoms and treatment.," The pancreas is a large gland behind the stomach and close to the first part of the small intestine. It secretes digestive juices into the small intestine through a tube called the pancreatic duct. The pancreas also releases the hormones insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream. Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. It happens when digestive enzymes start digesting the pancreas itself. Pancreatitis can be acute or chronic. Either form is serious and can lead to complications. Acute pancreatitis occurs suddenly and usually goes away in a few days with treatment. It is often caused by gallstones . Common symptoms are severe pain in the upper abdomen, nausea, and vomiting. Treatment is usually a few days in the hospital for intravenous (IV) fluids, antibiotics, and medicines to relieve pain. Chronic pancreatitis does not heal or improve. It gets worse over time and leads to permanent damage. The most common cause is heavy alcohol use . Other causes include cystic fibrosis and other inherited disorders, high levels of calcium or fats in the blood, some medicines, and autoimmune conditions . Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, weight loss, and oily stools. Treatment may also be a few days in the hospital for intravenous (IV) fluids, medicines to relieve pain, and nutritional support. After that, you may need to start taking enzymes and eat a special diet. It is also important to not smoke or drink alcohol. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Panic Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/panicdisorder.html,"Get the facts on panic disorders (a type of anxiety disorder), which can happen anytime, anywhere and without warning."," Panic disorder is a type of anxiety disorder . It causes panic attacks, which are sudden feelings of terror when there is no real danger. You may feel as if you are losing control. You may also have physical symptoms, such as Fast heartbeat Chest or stomach pain Breathing difficulty Weakness or dizziness Sweating Feeling hot or a cold chill Tingly or numb hands Panic attacks can happen anytime, anywhere, and without warning. You may live in fear of another attack and may avoid places where you have had an attack. For some people, fear takes over their lives and they cannot leave their homes. Panic disorder is more common in women than men. It usually starts when people are young adults. Sometimes it starts when a person is under a lot of stress. Most people get better with treatment. Therapy can show you how to recognize and change your thinking patterns before they lead to panic. Medicines can also help. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Paralysis,https://medlineplus.gov/paralysis.html,"Paralysis is a loss of muscle function in part of your body, when messages between the brain and muscles are disrupted. Learn about causes and coping."," Paralysis is the loss of muscle function in part of your body. It happens when something goes wrong with the way messages pass between your brain and muscles. Paralysis can be complete or partial. It can occur on one or both sides of your body. It can also occur in just one area, or it can be widespread. Paralysis of the lower half of your body, including both legs, is called paraplegia. Paralysis of the arms and legs is quadriplegia. Most paralysis is due to strokes or injuries such as spinal cord injury or a broken neck. Other causes of paralysis include Nerve diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Autoimmune diseases such as Guillain-Barre syndrome Bell's palsy , which affects muscles in the face Polio used to be a cause of paralysis, but polio no longer occurs in the U.S."
Parasitic Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/parasiticdiseases.html,"Parasitic diseases are diseases transmitted by parasites, usually found in contaminated food, water or bug bites. Protect yourself with these tips."," Parasites are living things that use other living things - like your body - for food and a place to live. You can get them from contaminated food or water, a bug bite, or sexual contact. Some parasitic diseases are easily treated and some are not. Parasites range in size from tiny, one-celled organisms called protozoa to worms that can be seen with the naked eye. Some parasitic diseases occur in the United States. Contaminated water supplies can lead to Giardia infections . Cats can transmit toxoplasmosis , which is dangerous for pregnant women. Others, like malaria , are common in other parts of the world. If you are traveling , it's important to drink only water you know is safe. Prevention is especially important. There are no vaccines for parasitic diseases. Some medicines are available to treat parasitic infections."
Parathyroid Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/parathyroiddisorders.html,"Too much or too little parathyroid hormone affects the right balance of calcium and phosphorous in your body, which can lead to parathyroid disorders."," Most people have four pea-sized glands, called parathyroid glands, on the thyroid gland in the neck. Though their names are similar, the thyroid and parathyroid glands are completely different. The parathyroid glands make parathyroid hormone (PTH), which helps your body keep the right balance of calcium and phosphorous. If your parathyroid glands make too much or too little hormone, it disrupts this balance. If they secrete extra PTH, you have hyperparathyroidism, and your blood calcium rises. In many cases, a benign tumor on a parathyroid gland makes it overactive. Or, the extra hormones can come from enlarged parathyroid glands. Very rarely, the cause is cancer. If you do not have enough PTH, you have hypoparathyroidism. Your blood will have too little calcium and too much phosphorous. Causes include injury to the glands, endocrine disorders , or genetic conditions. Treatment is aimed at restoring the balance of calcium and phosphorous. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Parenting,https://medlineplus.gov/parenting.html,"Parenting styles differ from person to person. However, one thing you should always be aware of is your child's safety. Find more parenting tips."," If you're a parent, you get plenty of suggestions on how to raise your child. From experts to other parents, people are always ready to offer advice. Parenting tips, parents' survival guides, dos, don'ts, shoulds and shouldn'ts - new ones come out daily. The truth is there is more than one ""right"" way to be a good parent. Good parenting includes Keeping your child safe Showing affection and listening to your child Providing order and consistency Setting and enforcing limits Spending time with your child Monitoring your child's friendships and activities Leading by example NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Parkinson's Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/parkinsonsdisease.html,"Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder. It causes tremors, stiffness, and slow movement. It gets worse over time. Learn what can help."," Parkinson's disease (PD) is a type of movement disorder . It happens when nerve cells in the brain don't produce enough of a brain chemical called dopamine. Sometimes it is genetic, but most cases do not seem to run in families. Exposure to chemicals in the environment might play a role. Symptoms begin gradually, often on one side of the body. Later they affect both sides. They include Trembling of hands, arms, legs, jaw and face Stiffness of the arms, legs and trunk Slowness of movement Poor balance and coordination As symptoms get worse, people with the disease may have trouble walking, talking, or doing simple tasks. They may also have problems such as depression, sleep problems, or trouble chewing, swallowing, or speaking. There is no specific test for PD, so it can be difficult to diagnose. Doctors use a medical history and a neurological examination to diagnose it. PD usually begins around age 60, but it can start earlier. It is more common in men than in women. There is no cure for PD. A variety of medicines sometimes help symptoms dramatically. Surgery and deep brain stimulation (DBS) can help severe cases. With DBS, electrodes are surgically implanted in the brain. They send electrical pulses to stimulate the parts of the brain that control movement. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Patient Rights,https://medlineplus.gov/patientrights.html,Patient rights differ from state to state but one common patient right is informed consent. Read more about it and how it can impact you.," As a patient, you have certain rights. Some are guaranteed by federal law, such as the right to get a copy of your medical records, and the right to keep them private. Many states have additional laws protecting patients, and health care facilities often have a patient bill of rights. An important patient right is informed consent. This means that if you need a treatment, your health care provider must give you the information you need to make a decision. Many hospitals have patient advocates who can help you if you have problems. Many states have an ombudsman office for problems with long term care. Your state's department of health may also be able to help."
Patient Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/patientsafety.html,Patient safety is something everyone should be aware of for the reduction of medical errors. Read about what you can start doing as a patient.," You can help prevent medical errors by being an active member of your health care team. Research shows that patients who are more involved with their care tend to get better results. To reduce the risk of medical errors, you can Ask questions if you have doubts or concerns. Take a relative or friend to your doctor appointment to help you ask questions and understand answers. Make sure you understand what will happen if you need surgery Tell your health care providers about all the medicines you take, including over-the-counter drugs and dietary supplements. Tell them if you have any allergies or bad reactions to anesthesia. Make sure you know how to take your medications correctly . Get a second opinion about treatment options Keep a copy of your own medical history Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality"
Pelvic Floor Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicfloordisorders.html,Pelvic floor disorders happen when your pelvic floor muscles get weak or injured. Common causes are pregnancy and childbirth. Learn about treatments.," The pelvic floor is a group of muscles and other tissues that form a sling or hammock across the pelvis. In women, it holds the uterus, bladder, bowel, and other pelvic organs in place so that they can work properly. The pelvic floor can become weak or be injured. The main causes are pregnancy and childbirth. Other causes include being overweight, radiation treatment, surgery, and getting older. Common symptoms include Feeling heaviness, fullness, pulling, or aching in the vagina. It gets worse by the end of the day or during a bowel movement. Seeing or feeling a ""bulge"" or ""something coming out"" of the vagina Having a hard time starting to urinate or emptying the bladder completely Having frequent urinary tract infections Leaking urine when you cough, laugh, or exercise Feeling an urgent or frequent need to urinate Feeling pain while urinating Leaking stool or having a hard time controlling gas Being constipated Having a hard time making it to the bathroom in time Your health care provider diagnoses the problem with a physical exam, a pelvic exam, or special tests. Treatments include special pelvic muscle exercises called Kegel exercises. A mechanical support device called a pessary helps some women. Surgery and medicines are other treatments. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicinflammatorydisease.html,"Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) is inflammation and infection of a woman's reproductive organs. If untreated, it may cause infertility. Read more."," Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection and inflammation of the uterus, ovaries, and other female reproductive organs. It causes scarring in these organs. This can lead to infertility, ectopic pregnancy, pelvic pain, abscesses, and other serious problems. PID is the most common preventable cause of infertility in the United States. Gonorrhea and chlamydia , two sexually transmitted diseases, are the most common causes of PID. Other bacteria can also cause it. You are at greater risk if you Are sexually active and younger than 25 Have more than one sex partner Douche Some women have no symptoms. Others have pain in the lower abdomen, fever, smelly vaginal discharge, irregular bleeding, and pain during intercourse or urination. Doctors diagnose PID with a physical exam, lab tests, and imaging tests. Antibiotics can cure PID. Early treatment is important. Waiting too long increases the risk of infertility."
Pelvic Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicpain.html,Pelvic pain in the area below your belly button may be caused by different reasons. Talk to your doctor about your specific symptoms. Get tips here.," Pelvic pain occurs mostly in the lower abdomen area. The pain might be steady, or it might come and go. It can be a sharp and stabbing pain in a specific spot, or a dull pain that is spread out. If the pain is severe, it might get in the way of your daily activities. If you're a woman, you might feel pain during your period . It could also happen when you have sex. Pelvic pain can be a sign that there is a problem with one of the organs in your pelvic area, such as the uterus, ovaries, fallopian tubes, cervix, or vagina. If you're a man, the cause could be problem with the prostate . In men and women, it could be a symptom of infection, or a problem with the urinary tract, lower intestines, rectum, muscle, or bone. Some women have more than one cause of pelvic pain at the same time. You might have to have lab, imaging, or other medical tests to find the cause of the pain. The treatment will depend on the cause, how bad the pain is, and how often it occurs. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Pemphigus,https://medlineplus.gov/pemphigus.html,"Pemphigus and bullous pemphigoid are an autoimmune disorder, affects cells in your skin and mouth. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment."," Pemphigus is an autoimmune disorder . If you have it, your immune system attacks healthy cells in your skin and mouth, causing blisters and sores. No one knows the cause. Pemphigus does not spread from person to person. It does not appear to be inherited. But some people's genes put them more at risk for pemphigus. Pemphigoid is also an autoimmune skin disease. It leads to deep blisters that do not break easily. Pemphigoid is most common in older adults and may be fatal for older, sick patients. Doctors diagnose pemphigus with a physical exam, a biopsy, and blood tests. The treatment of pemphigus and pemphigoid is the same: one or more medicines to control symptoms. These may include Steroids , which reduce inflammation Drugs that suppress the immune system response Antibiotics to treat associated infections NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Penis Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/penisdisorders.html,"Penis disorders can cause pain and affect a man's sexual function and fertility. Read about the types of problems, including symptoms and treatments."," Problems with the penis can cause pain and affect a man's sexual function and fertility. Penis disorders include Erectile dysfunction - inability to get or keep an erection Priapism - a painful erection that does not go away Peyronie's disease - bending of the penis during an erection due to a hard lump called a plaque Balanitis - inflammation of the skin covering the head of the penis, most often in men and boys who have not been circumcised Penile cancer - a rare form of cancer, highly curable when caught early"
Peptic Ulcer,https://medlineplus.gov/pepticulcer.html,Dull and burning stomach pain are common symptoms of a peptic ulcer. Read about tests that help detect stomach ulcers and get relief for your belly.," A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of your stomach or your duodenum, the first part of your small intestine. A burning stomach pain is the most common symptom. The pain Starts between meals or during the night Briefly stops if you eat or take antacids Lasts for minutes to hours Comes and goes for several days or weeks Peptic ulcers happen when the acids that help you digest food damage the walls of the stomach or duodenum. The most common cause is infection with a bacterium called Helicobacter pylori . Another cause is the long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) such as aspirin and ibuprofen. Stress and spicy foods do not cause ulcers, but can make them worse. To see if you have an H. pylori infection, your doctor will test your blood, breath, or stool. Your doctor also may look inside your stomach and duodenum by doing an endoscopy or x-ray. Peptic ulcers will get worse if not treated. Treatment may include medicines to reduce stomach acids or antibiotics to kill H. pylori. Antacids and milk can't heal peptic ulcers. Not smoking and avoiding alcohol can help. You may need surgery if your ulcers don't heal. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Pericardial Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/pericardialdisorders.html,"The pericardium is a membrane that surrounds the heart. Pericardial disorders include pericarditis, pericardial effusion, and cardiac tamponade."," The pericardium is a membrane, or sac, that surrounds your heart. It holds the heart in place and helps it work properly. Problems with the pericardium include Pericarditis - an inflammation of the sac. It can be from a virus or other infection, a heart attack, heart surgery, other medical conditions, injuries, and certain medicines. Pericardial effusion - the buildup of fluid in the sac Cardiac tamponade - a serious problem in which buildup of fluid in the sac causes problems with the function of the heart Symptoms of pericardial problems include chest pain, rapid heartbeat, and difficulty breathing. Fever is a common symptom of acute pericarditis. Your doctor may use a physical exam, imaging tests, and heart tests to make a diagnosis. Treatment depends on the cause. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Period Pain,https://medlineplus.gov/periodpain.html,"Period pain affects many women, and it can be severe. Learn about the cause of menstrual cramps, what you can do to feel better, and when you need to see a doctor."," What are painful periods? Menstruation , or period, is normal vaginal bleeding that happens as part of a woman's monthly cycle. Many women have painful periods, also called dysmenorrhea. The pain is most often menstrual cramps, which are a throbbing, cramping pain in your lower abdomen. You may also have other symptoms, such as lower back pain, nausea, diarrhea, and headaches. Period pain is not the same as premenstrual syndrome (PMS). PMS causes many different symptoms, including weight gain, bloating, irritability, and fatigue. PMS often starts one to two weeks before your period starts. What causes painful periods? There are two types of dysmenorrhea: primary and secondary. Each type has different causes. Primary dysmenorrhea is the most common kind of period pain. It is period pain that is not caused by another condition. The cause is usually having too many prostaglandins, which are chemicals that your uterus makes. These chemicals make the muscles of your uterus tighten and relax, and this causes the cramps. The pain can start a day or two before your period. It normally lasts for a few days, though in some women it can last longer. You usually first start having period pain when you are younger, just after you begin getting periods. Often, as you get older, you have less pain. The pain may also get better after you have given birth. Secondary dysmenorrhea often starts later in life. It is caused by conditions that affect your uterus or other reproductive organs, such as endometriosis and uterine fibroids . This kind of pain often gets worse over time. It may begin before your period starts and continue after your period ends. What can I do about period pain? To help ease your period pain, you can try Using a heating pad or hot water bottle on your lower abdomen Getting some exercise Taking a hot bath Doing relaxation techniques, including yoga and meditation You might also try taking over-the-counter pain relievers such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs include ibuprofen and naproxen. Besides relieving pain, NSAIDs reduce the amount of prostaglandins that your uterus makes and lessen their effects. This helps to lessen the cramps. You can take NSAIDs when you first have symptoms, or when your period starts. You can keep taking them for a few days. You should not take NSAIDS if you have ulcers or other stomach problems, bleeding problems, or liver disease. You should also not take them if you are allergic to aspirin. Always check with your health care provider if you are not sure whether or not you should take NSAIDs. It may also help to get enough rest and avoid using alcohol and tobacco. When should I get medical help for my period pain? For many women, some pain during your period is normal. However, you should contact your health care provider if NSAIDs and self-care measures don't help, and the pain interferes with your life Your cramps suddenly get worse You are over 25 and you get severe cramps for the first time You have a fever with your period pain You have the pain even when you are not getting your period How is the cause of severe period pain diagnosed? To diagnose severe period pain, your health care provider will ask you about your medical history and do a pelvic exam. You may also have an ultrasound or other imaging test . If your health care provider thinks you have secondary dysmenorrhea, you might have laparoscopy . It is a surgery that that lets your health care provider look inside your body. What are treatments for severe period pain? If your period pain is primary dysmenorrhea and you need medical treatment, your health care provider might suggest using hormonal birth control, such as the pill, patch, ring, or IUD. Another treatment option might be prescription pain relievers. If you have secondary dysmenorrhea, your treatment depends upon the condition that is causing the problem. In some cases, you may need surgery."
Peripheral Arterial Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/peripheralarterialdisease.html,Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) happens when there is a narrowing of the blood vessels outside of your heart. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) happens when there is a narrowing of the blood vessels outside of your heart. The cause of PAD is atherosclerosis . This happens when plaque builds up on the walls of the arteries that supply blood to the arms and legs. Plaque is a substance made up of fat and cholesterol. It causes the arteries to narrow or become blocked. This can reduce or stop blood flow, usually to the legs. If severe enough, blocked blood flow can cause tissue death and can sometimes lead to amputation of the foot or leg. The main risk factor for PAD is smoking. Other risk factors include older age and diseases like diabetes, high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart disease, and stroke. Many people who have PAD don't have any symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include Pain, numbness, achiness, or heaviness in the leg muscles. This happens when walking or climbing stairs. Weak or absent pulses in the legs or feet Sores or wounds on the toes, feet, or legs that heal slowly, poorly, or not at all A pale or bluish color to the skin A lower temperature in one leg than the other leg Poor nail growth on the toes and decreased hair growth on the legs Erectile dysfunction, especially among men who have diabetes PAD can increase your risk of heart attack , stroke , and transient ischemic attack . Doctors diagnose PAD with a physical exam and heart and imaging tests. Treatments include lifestyle changes, medicines, and sometimes surgery. Lifestyle changes include dietary changes, exercise, and efforts to lower high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure . NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Peripheral Nerve Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/peripheralnervedisorders.html,Peripheral nerves are nerves outside your brain and spinal cord. Learn about neuropathy and more than 100 other types of peripheral nerve disorders.," Your peripheral nerves are the ones outside your brain and spinal cord. Like static on a telephone line, peripheral nerve disorders distort or interrupt the messages between the brain and the rest of the body. There are more than 100 kinds of peripheral nerve disorders. They can affect one nerve or many nerves. Some are the result of other diseases, like diabetic nerve problems . Others, like Guillain-Barre syndrome , happen after a virus infection. Still others are from nerve compression, like carpal tunnel syndrome or thoracic outlet syndrome . In some cases, like complex regional pain syndrome and brachial plexus injuries , the problem begins after an injury. Some people are born with peripheral nerve disorders. Symptoms often start gradually, and then get worse. They include Numbness Pain Burning or tingling Muscle weakness Sensitivity to touch Treatment aims to treat any underlying problem, reduce pain and control symptoms. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Peritoneal Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/peritonealdisorders.html,"Your peritoneum lines your abdominal wall. Disorders of the peritoneum aren't common but  include peritonitis, cancer and complications from dialysis."," Your peritoneum is the tissue that lines your abdominal wall and covers most of the organs in your abdomen. A liquid, peritoneal fluid, lubricates the surface of this tissue. Disorders of the peritoneum are not common. They include Peritonitis - an inflammation of the peritoneum Cancer Complications from peritoneal dialysis Your doctor may use imaging tests or lab tests to analyze the peritoneal fluid to diagnose the problem. Treatment of peritoneal disorders depends on the cause."
Personal Health Records,https://medlineplus.gov/personalhealthrecords.html,Your medical office has your personal health records but it's good for you to create one for yourself too. Find out what you should include on it.," You've probably seen your chart at your doctor's office. In fact, you may have charts at several doctors' offices. If you've been in the hospital, you have a chart there, too. These charts are your medical records. They may be on paper or electronic. To keep track of all this information, it's a good idea to keep your own personal health record. What kind of information would you put in a personal health record? You could start with Your name, birth date, blood type, and emergency contact information Date of last physical Dates and results of tests and screenings Major illnesses and surgeries, with dates A list of your medicines and supplements, the dosages, and how long you've taken them Any allergies Any chronic diseases Any history of illnesses in your family"
Personality Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/personalitydisorders.html,People with personality disorders have trouble dealing with everyday stresses and problems. There are many types of personality disorders. Read more.," Personality disorders are a group of mental illnesses. They involve long-term patterns of thoughts and behaviors that are unhealthy and inflexible. The behaviors cause serious problems with relationships and work. People with personality disorders have trouble dealing with everyday stresses and problems. They often have stormy relationships with other people. The cause of personality disorders is unknown. However, genes and childhood experiences may play a role. The symptoms of each personality disorder are different. They can mild or severe. People with personality disorders may have trouble realizing that they have a problem. To them, their thoughts are normal, and they often blame others for their problems. They may try to get help because of their problems with relationships and work. Treatment usually includes talk therapy and sometimes medicine."
Pesticides,https://medlineplus.gov/pesticides.html,"Pesticides can help get rid of pests. Pesticides can protect your health by killing germs, animals, or plants that could hurt you."," Pests live where they are not wanted or cause harm to crops, people, or animals. Pesticides can help get rid of them. Pesticides are not just insect killers. They also include chemicals to control weeds, rodents, mildew, germs, and more. Many household products contain pesticides. Pesticides can protect your health by killing germs, animals, or plants that could hurt you. However, they can also be harmful to people or pets. You might want to try non-chemical methods first. If you do need a pesticide, use it correctly. Be especially careful around children and pets. Proper disposal of pesticides is also important - it can help protect the environment. Biologically-based pesticides are becoming more popular. They often are safer than traditional pesticides. Environmental Protection Agency"
Pet Health,https://medlineplus.gov/pethealth.html,Keeping your pet healthy is your responsibility as a pet owner. Know the signs of medical problems and what to look out for.," Pets can add fun, companionship and a feeling of safety to your life. Before getting a pet, think carefully about which animal is best for your family. What is each family member looking for in a pet? Who will take care of it? Does anyone have pet allergies? What type of animal suits your lifestyle and budget? Once you own a pet, keep it healthy. Know the signs of medical problems. Take your pet to the veterinarian if you notice: Loss of appetite Drinking a lot of water Gaining or losing a lot of weight quickly Strange behavior Being sluggish and tired Trouble getting up or down Strange lumps"
Phenylketonuria,https://medlineplus.gov/phenylketonuria.html,"In phenylketonuria (PKU), your body can't process phenylalanine, an amino acid in most foods. Read about genetics, screening, and special diets."," Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a type of amino acid metabolism disorder . It is inherited. If you have it, your body can't process phenylalanine (Phe). Phe is an amino acid, a building block of proteins. It is in almost all foods. If your Phe level gets too high, it can damage your brain and cause severe intellectual disability. All babies born in U.S. hospitals must now have a screening test for PKU. This makes it easier to diagnose and treat the problem early. The best treatment for PKU is a diet of low-protein foods. There are special formulas for newborns. For older children and adults, the diet includes many fruits and vegetables. It also includes some low-protein breads, pastas, and cereals. Nutritional formulas provide the vitamins and minerals you can't get from their food. Babies who get on this special diet soon after they are born develop normally. Many have no symptoms of PKU. It is important to stay on the diet for the rest of your life. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Pheochromocytoma,https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html,Pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor. Pheochromocytomas often cause the adrenal gland to make too many hormones. This can lead to high blood pressure.," Pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor that usually starts in the cells of one of your adrenal glands. Although they are usually benign , pheochromocytomas often cause the adrenal gland to make too many hormones. This can lead to high blood pressure and cause symptoms such as Headaches Sweating Pounding of the heart Being shaky Being extremely pale Sometimes pheochromocytoma is part of another condition called multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome (MEN). People with MEN often have other cancers and other problems involving hormones. Doctors use lab tests and imaging tests to diagnose it. Surgery is the most common treatment. Other options include radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Phobias,https://medlineplus.gov/phobias.html,A phobia is a type of anxiety disorder. There are many specific phobias. Treatment helps most people with phobias.," A phobia is a type of anxiety disorder . It is a strong, irrational fear of something that poses little or no real danger. There are many specific phobias. Acrophobia is a fear of heights. Agoraphobia is a fear of public places, and claustrophobia is a fear of closed-in places. If you become anxious and extremely self-conscious in everyday social situations, you could have a social phobia. Other common phobias involve tunnels, highway driving, water, flying, animals and blood. People with phobias try to avoid what they are afraid of. If they cannot, they may experience Panic and fear Rapid heartbeat Shortness of breath Trembling A strong desire to get away Phobias usually start in children or teens, and continue into adulthood. The causes of specific phobias are not known, but they sometimes run in families. Treatment helps most people with phobias. Options include medicines, therapy or both. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Piercing and Tattoos,https://medlineplus.gov/piercingandtattoos.html,Tattoos and piercings are popular forms of body art that can be associated with serious health risks. Read this before getting new ink or piercings.," Piercings and tattoos are body decorations that go back to ancient times. Body piercing involves making a hole in the skin so that you can insert jewelry. This is often in the earlobe, but can be in other parts of the body. Tattoos are designs on the skin made with needles and colored ink. A permanent tattoo is meant to last forever. Permanent makeup is a type of tattoo. The health risks of piercings and tattoos include Allergic reactions Keloids, a type of scar that forms during healing Infections, such as hepatitis To reduce the risks, make sure that the facility is clean, safe and has a good reputation. Proper sterilization of the equipment is important. Be sure to follow the instructions on caring for your skin. Holes from piercing usually close up if you no longer wear the jewelry. It is possible to remove tattoos, but it's painful and can cause scarring."
Pink Eye,https://medlineplus.gov/pinkeye.html,"Pink Eye (conjunctivitis) is inflammation of the outer layer of the eye and inside of the eyelid. Read about the symptoms, causes, and treatment."," Conjunctivitis is the medical name for pink eye. It involves inflammation of the outer layer of the eye and inside of the eyelid. It can cause swelling, itching, burning, discharge, and redness. Causes include Bacterial or viral infection Allergies Substances that cause irritation Contact lens products, eye drops, or eye ointments Pink eye usually does not affect vision. Infectious pink eye can easily spread from one person to another. The infection will clear in most cases without medical care, but bacterial pink eye needs treatment with antibiotic eye drops or ointment. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Pinworms,https://medlineplus.gov/pinworms.html,Pinworms are small parasites that spread easily. The eggs can live on household surfaces for up to 2 weeks. The infection is more common in children.," Pinworms are small parasites that can live in the colon and rectum. You get them when you swallow their eggs. The eggs hatch inside your intestines. While you sleep, the female pinworms leave the intestines through the anus and lay eggs on nearby skin. Pinworms spread easily. When people who are infected touch their anus, the eggs attach to their fingertips. They can spread the eggs to others directly through their hands, or through contaminated clothing, bedding, food, or other articles. The eggs can live on household surfaces for up to 2 weeks. The infection is more common in children. Many people have no symptoms at all. Some people feel itching around the anus or vagina. The itching may become intense, interfere with sleep, and make you irritable. Your health care provider can diagnose pinworm infection by finding the eggs. A common way to collect the eggs is with a sticky piece of clear tape. Mild infections may not need treatment. If you do need medicine, everyone in the household should take it. To prevent becoming infected or reinfected with pinworms, Bathe after waking up Wash your pajamas and bed sheets often Wash your hands regularly, especially after using the bathroom or changing diapers Change your underwear every day Avoid nail biting Avoid scratching the anal area"
Pituitary Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/pituitarydisorders.html,"Your pituitary gland makes hormones. With a pituitary disorder, you have too much or too little of one of these hormones. Learn about these disorders."," Your pituitary gland is a pea-sized gland at the base of your brain. The pituitary is the &quot;master control gland&quot; - it makes hormones that affect growth and the functions of other glands in the body. With pituitary disorders, you often have too much or too little of one of your hormones. Injuries can cause pituitary disorders, but the most common cause is a pituitary tumor ."
Pituitary Tumors,https://medlineplus.gov/pituitarytumors.html,Pituitary tumors are common. The most common type of pituitary tumor produces hormones and disrupts the balance of hormones in your body.," Your pituitary gland is a pea-sized gland at the base of your brain. The pituitary is the ""master control gland"" - it makes hormones that affect growth and the functions of other glands in the body. Pituitary tumors are common, but often they don't cause health problems. Most people with pituitary tumors never even know they have them. The most common type of pituitary tumor produces hormones and disrupts the balance of hormones in your body. This can cause endocrine diseases such as Cushing's syndrome and hyperthyroidism . Symptoms of pituitary tumors include Headaches Vision problems Nausea and vomiting Problems caused by the production of too many hormones Pituitary tumors are usually curable. Treatment is often surgery to remove the tumor. Other options include medicines, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy."
Plague,https://medlineplus.gov/plague.html,Plague is an infection caused by bacteria found mainly in rats and in the fleas that feed on them. There are three forms of plague.," Plague is an infection caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis. The bacteria are found mainly in rats and in the fleas that feed on them. People and other animals can get plague from rat or flea bites. In the past, plague destroyed entire civilizations. Today plague is uncommon, due to better living conditions and antibiotics. There are three forms of plague: Bubonic plague causes the tonsils, adenoids, spleen, and thymus to become inflamed. Symptoms include fever, aches, chills, and tender lymph glands. In septicemic plague, bacteria multiply in the blood. It causes fever, chills, shock, and bleeding under the skin or other organs. Pneumonic plague is the most serious form. Bacteria enter the lungs and cause pneumonia. People with the infection can spread this form to others. This type could be a bioterror agent. Lab tests can diagnose plague. Treatment is a strong antibiotic. There is no vaccine."
Plastic and Cosmetic Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/plasticandcosmeticsurgery.html,Cosmetic surgery is performed to reshape the appearance of body parts. Cosmetic surgery can create physical changes and changes in self-esteem.," Surgeons can reshape the appearance of body parts through cosmetic surgery. Some of the most common body parts people want to improve through surgery include Breasts: Increase or reduce the size of breasts or reshape sagging breasts Ears: Reduce the size of large ears or set protruding ears back closer to the head Eyes: Correct drooping upper eyelids or remove puffy bags below the eyes Face: Remove facial wrinkles, creases or acne scars Hair: Fill in balding areas with one's own hair Nose: Change the shape of the nose Tummy: Flatten the abdomen"
Platelet Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/plateletdisorders.html,"Platelets help wounds heal and prevent bleeding by forming blood clots. Learn about problems from having too few, too many, or abnormal platelets."," Platelets, also known as thrombocytes, are blood cells. They form in your bone marrow, a sponge-like tissue in your bones. Platelets play a major role in blood clotting. Normally, when one of your blood vessels is injured, you start to bleed. Your platelets will clot (clump together) to plug the hole in the blood vessel and stop the bleeding. You can have different problems with your platelets: If your blood has a low number of platelets , it is called thrombocytopenia. This can put you at risk for mild to serious bleeding . The bleeding could be external or internal. There can be various causes. If the problem is mild, you may not need treatment. For more serious cases, you may need medicines or blood or platelet transfusions . If your blood has too many platelets , you may have a higher risk of blood clots . When the cause is unknown, this is called thrombocythemia. It is rare. You may not need treatment if there are no signs or symptoms. In other cases, people who have it may need treatment with medicines or procedures. If another disease or condition is causing the high platelet count, it is thrombocytosis. The treatment and outlook for thrombocytosis depends on what is causing it. Another possible problem is that your platelets do not work as they should . For example, in von Willebrand Disease, your platelets cannot stick together or cannot attach to blood vessel walls. This can cause excessive bleeding. There are different types of in von Willebrand Disease; treatment depends on which type you have. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Pleural Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/pleuraldisorders.html,"Pleura is the tissue that wraps around the outside of your lungs. Pleural disorders include pleurisy, pleural effusion and pneumothorax. Learn more."," Your pleura is a large, thin sheet of tissue that wraps around the outside of your lungs and lines the inside of your chest cavity. Between the layers of the pleura is a very thin space. Normally it's filled with a small amount of fluid. The fluid helps the two layers of the pleura glide smoothly past each other as your lungs breathe air in and out. Disorders of the pleura include Pleurisy - inflammation of the pleura that causes sharp pain with breathing Pleural effusion - excess fluid in the pleural space Pneumothorax - buildup of air or gas in the pleural space Hemothorax - buildup of blood in the pleural space Many different conditions can cause pleural problems. Viral infection is the most common cause of pleurisy. The most common cause of pleural effusion is congestive heart failure . Lung diseases, like COPD , tuberculosis, and acute lung injury, cause pneumothorax. Injury to the chest is the most common cause of hemothorax. Treatment focuses on removing fluid, air, or blood from the pleural space, relieving symptoms, and treating the underlying condition. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Pneumococcal Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/pneumococcalinfections.html,"Pneumococcal infections can be mild or severe. The most common types of infections are Meningitis, Sepsis, Pneumonia, and ear and sinus infections "," Pneumococci are a type of streptococcus bacteria. The bacteria spread through contact with people who are ill or by healthy people who carry the bacteria in the back of their nose. Pneumococcal infections can be mild or severe. The most common types of infections are Ear infections Sinus infections Pneumonia Sepsis Meningitis How the diagnosis is made depends upon where the infection is. Your doctor will do a physical exam and ask about your medical history. Possible tests may include blood, imaging, or lab tests. Treatment is with antibiotics. Vaccines can prevent pneumococcal infections. There are two vaccines. One is for infants and young children. The other is for people at high risk, including those who are over 65 years old, have chronic illnesses or weak immune systems, smoke, have asthma, or live in long-term care facilities. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Pneumocystis Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/pneumocystisinfections.html,Pheumocystis Infections are caused by a fungus in the lungs. The most common is pneumocystis pneumonia. Read about the first signs of this infection.," Pneumocystis jirovecii is a tiny fungus that lives in the lungs of many people. Most people's immune systems keep the fungus under control. But if you have a weakened immune system, the fungus can make you very sick. The most common type of infection is pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP). PCP once was the major cause of death for people with HIV/AIDS . But now, it is possible to prevent or treat most cases. The key to surviving PCP is early treatment. The first signs of PCP are fever, dry cough, shortness of breath, and fatigue. If you have a weakened immune system and have these symptoms, see your doctor right away. To diagnose PCP, doctors use a microscope to look for the fungus in a sample of lung fluid or tissue. Treatment is with antibiotics . There is no vaccine to prevent PCP. Some people who are at high risk of getting PCP may need to take antibiotics to prevent it."
Pneumonia,https://medlineplus.gov/pneumonia.html,Pneumonia is an infection in one or both of the lungs. Symptoms of pneumonia vary to mild to severe. Read about the signs of pneumonia.," What is pneumonia? Pneumonia is an infection in one or both of the lungs. It causes the air sacs of the lungs to fill up with fluid or pus. It can range from mild to severe, depending on the type of germ causing the infection, your age, and your overall health. What causes pneumonia? Bacterial , viral , and fungal infections can cause pneumonia. Bacteria are the most common cause. Bacterial pneumonia can occur on its own. It can also develop after you've had certain viral infections such as a cold or the flu . Several different types of bacteria can cause pneumonia, including Streptococcus pneumoniae Legionella pneumophila; this pneumonia is often called Legionnaires' disease Mycoplasma pneumoniae Chlamydia pneumoniae Haemophilus influenzae Viruses that infect the respiratory tract may cause pneumonia. Viral pneumonia is often mild and goes away on its own within a few weeks. But sometimes it is serious enough that you need to get treatment in a hospital. If you have viral pneumonia, you are at risk of also getting bacterial pneumonia. The different viruses that can cause pneumonia include Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) Some common cold and flu viruses SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 Fungal pneumonia is more common in people who have chronic health problems or weakened immune systems. Some of the types include Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) Coccidioidomycosis, which causes valley fever Histoplasmosis Cryptococcus Who is at risk for pneumonia? Anyone can get pneumonia, but certain factors can increase your risk: Age; the risk is higher for children who are age 2 and under and adults age 65 and older Exposure to certain chemicals, pollutants, or toxic fumes Lifestyle habits, such as smoking , heavy alcohol use , and malnourishment Being in a hospital, especially if you are in the ICU . Being sedated and/or on a ventilator raises the risk even more. Having a lung disease Having a weakened immune system Have trouble coughing or swallowing , from a stroke or other condition Recently being sick with a cold or the flu What are the symptoms of pneumonia? The symptoms of pneumonia can range from mild to severe and include Fever Chills Cough, usually with phlegm (a slimy substance from deep in your lungs) Shortness of breath Chest pain when you breathe or cough Nausea and/or vomiting Diarrhea The symptoms can vary for different groups. Newborns and infants may not show any signs of the infection. Others may vomit and have a fever and cough. They might seem sick, with no energy, or be restless. Older adults and people who have serious illnesses or weak immune systems may have fewer and milder symptoms. They may even have a lower than normal temperature. Older adults who have pneumonia sometimes have sudden changes in mental awareness. What other problems can pneumonia cause? Sometimes pneumonia can cause serious complications such as Bacteremia, which happens when the bacteria move into the bloodstream. It is serious and can lead to septic shock . Lung abscesses , which are collections of pus in cavities of the lungs Pleural disorders , which are conditions that affect the pleura. The pleura is the tissue that covers the outside of the lungs and lines the inside of your chest cavity. Kidney failure Respiratory failure How is pneumonia diagnosed? Sometimes pneumonia can be hard to diagnose. This is because it can cause some of the same symptoms as a cold or the flu. It may take time for you to realize that you have a more serious condition. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about medical history and symptoms Will do a physical exam, including listening to your lungs with a stethoscope May do tests, including Chest x-ray Blood tests such as a complete blood count (CBC) to see if your immune system is actively fighting an infection Blood culture to find out whether you have a bacterial infection that has spread to your bloodstream If you are in the hospital, have serious symptoms, are older, or have other health problems, you may also have more tests, such as Sputum test, which checks for bacteria in a sample of your sputum (spit) or phlegm (slimy substance from deep in your lungs). Chest CT scan to see how much of your lungs is affected. It may also show if you have complications such as lung abscesses or pleural effusions. Pleural fluid culture , which checks for bacteria in a fluid sample that was taken from the pleural space Pulse oximetry or blood oxygen level test, to check how much oxygen is in your blood Bronchoscopy, a procedure used to look inside your lungs' airways What are the treatments for pneumonia? Treatment for pneumonia depends on the type of pneumonia, which germ is causing it, and how severe it is: Antibiotics treat bacterial pneumonia and some types of fungal pneumonia. They do not work for viral pneumonia. In some cases, your provider may prescribe antiviral medicines for viral pneumonia Antifungal medicines treat other types of fungal pneumonia You may need to be treated in a hospital if your symptoms are severe or if you are at risk for complications. While there, you may get additional treatments. For example, if your blood oxygen level is low, you may receive oxygen therapy . It may take time to recover from pneumonia. Some people feel better within a week. For other people, it can take a month or more. Can pneumonia be prevented? Vaccines can help prevent pneumonia caused by pneumococcal bacteria or the flu virus . Having good hygiene , not smoking, and having a healthy lifestyle may also help prevent pneumonia. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
"Poison Ivy, Oak, and Sumac",https://medlineplus.gov/poisonivyoakandsumac.html,"Spending time outdoors could result in contact with poison ivy, oak or sumac plants. Most people are sensitive, they can cause a blistering skin rash."," If you spend time outdoors, chances are you have been bothered by poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac at some point. Most people are sensitive to the plants' oily sap. The sap is in the root, stems, leaves and fruit of these plants. If it gets on your skin, it causes a blistering skin rash . The rash can range from mild to severe, depending on how much sap gets on your skin and how sensitive you are to it. Problems can also happen if the plants are burned. Airborne sap-coated soot can get into the eyes, nose, throat and respiratory system. The best way to avoid the rash is to learn what the plants look like and stay away from them. If you come into contact with the plants, wash your skin and clothing right away. If you develop a rash, ask your pharmacist about over-the-counter medicines. For severe rashes, see your doctor. National Park Service"
Poisoning,https://medlineplus.gov/poisoning.html,"A poison is any substance that is harmful to your body. The effects of poisoning range from short-term illness to brain damage, coma, and death."," A poison is any substance that is harmful to your body. You might swallow it, inhale it, inject it, or absorb it through your skin. Any substance can be poisonous if too much is taken. Poisons can include Prescription or over-the-counter medicines taken in doses that are too high Overdoses of illegal drugs Carbon monoxide from gas appliances Household products , such as laundry powder or furniture polish Pesticides Indoor or outdoor plants Metals such as lead and mercury The effects of poisoning range from short-term illness to brain damage, coma, and death. To prevent poisoning it is important to use and store products exactly as their labels say. Keep dangerous products where children can't get to them. Treatment for poisoning depends on the type of poison. If you suspect someone has been poisoned, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222 right away."
Polio and Post-Polio Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/polioandpostpoliosyndrome.html,Poliovirus is very contagious. Get the facts on polio and post-polio syndrome. Take precautions when travelling and learn about the polio vaccine. ," Polio is an infectious disease caused by a virus. The virus lives in an infected person's throat and intestines. It is most often spread by contact with the stool of an infected person. You can also get it from droplets if an infected person sneezes or coughs. It can contaminate food and water if people do not wash their hands. Most people have no symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include fever, fatigue, nausea, headache, flu-like symptoms, stiff neck and back, and pain in the limbs. A few people will become paralyzed. There is no treatment to reverse the paralysis of polio. Some people who've had polio develop post-polio syndrome (PPS) years later. Symptoms include tiredness, new muscle weakness, and muscle and joint pain. There is no way to prevent or cure PPS. The polio vaccine has wiped out polio in the United States and most other countries. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/polycysticovarysyndrome.html,Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) happens when a woman's ovaries or adrenal glands produce more male hormones than normal. Learn the symptoms of PCOS.," Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) happens when a woman's ovaries or adrenal glands produce more male hormones than normal. PCOS causes cysts (fluid-filled sacs) to grow on the ovaries. Symptoms include Irregular menstrual periods Infertility Pelvic pain Excess hair growth on the face, chest, stomach, or thighs Weight gain Acne or oily skin Patches of thickened skin Women with PCOS are at higher risk of diabetes, metabolic syndrome, heart disease, and high blood pressure. PCOS is more common in women who have obesity or have a mother or sister with PCOS. To diagnose PCOS, your health care provider may do a physical exam, pelvic exam, blood tests, and an ultrasound . There is no cure, but diet, exercise, and medicines can help control the symptoms. Birth control pills help women have normal periods, reduce male hormone levels, and clear acne. Treatments for infertility caused by PCOS may include medicines, surgery, and in vitro fertilization (IVF). NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Polymyalgia Rheumatica,https://medlineplus.gov/polymyalgiarheumatica.html,"Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness in your neck, shoulders and hips. Read about diagnosis and treatment."," Polymyalgia rheumatica is a disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness in your neck, shoulders, and hips. It is most common in women and almost always occurs in people over 50. The main symptom is stiffness after resting. Other symptoms include fever , weakness and weight loss. In some cases, polymyalgia rheumatica develops overnight. In others, it is gradual. The cause of polymyalgia rheumatica is unknown. There is no specific test for it. Your doctor will use your medical history, symptoms, and a physical exam to make the diagnosis. Lab tests for inflammation may help confirm the diagnosis. Polymyalgia rheumatica sometimes occurs along with giant cell arteritis , a condition that causes swelling of the arteries in your head. Symptoms include headaches and blurred vision. Doctors often prescribe prednisone, a steroid medicine, for both conditions. With treatment, polymyalgia rheumatica usually disappears in a day or two. Without treatment, it usually goes away after a year or more. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Porphyria,https://medlineplus.gov/porphyria.html,Porphyrias are a group of genetic disorders caused by problems with how your body makes a substance called heme. Read more about types and symptoms.," Porphyrias are a group of genetic disorders caused by problems with how your body makes a substance called heme. Heme is found throughout the body, especially in your blood and bone marrow, where it carries oxygen. There are two main types of porphyrias. One affects the skin and the other affects the nervous system. People with the skin type develop blisters, itching, and swelling of their skin when it is exposed to sunlight. The nervous system type is called acute porphyria. Symptoms include pain in the chest, abdomen, limbs, or back; muscle numbness, tingling, paralysis, or cramping; vomiting; constipation; and personality changes or mental disorders. These symptoms come and go. Certain triggers can cause an attack, including some medicines, smoking, drinking alcohol, infections, stress, and sun exposure. Attacks develop over hours or days. They can last for days or weeks. Porphyria can be hard to diagnose. It requires blood, urine, and stool tests. Each type of porphyria is treated differently. Treatment may involve avoiding triggers, receiving heme through a vein, taking medicines to relieve symptoms, or having blood drawn to reduce iron in the body. People who have severe attacks may need to be hospitalized. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/posttraumaticstressdisorder.html,You can get Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) after experiencing a traumatic event. PTSD starts at different times for different people.," What is post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental health disorder that some people develop after they experience or see a traumatic event. The traumatic event may be life-threatening, such as combat, a natural disaster , a car accident, or sexual assault . But sometimes the event is not necessarily a dangerous one. For example, the sudden, unexpected death of a loved one can also cause PTSD. It's normal to feel afraid during and after a traumatic situation. The fear triggers a ""fight-or-flight"" response. This is your body's way of helping to protect itself from possible harm. It causes changes in your body such as the release of certain hormones and increases in alertness, blood pressure, heart rate, and breathing. In time, most people recover from this naturally. But people with PTSD don't feel better. They feel stressed and frightened long after the trauma is over. In some cases, the PTSD symptoms may start later on. They might also come and go over time. What causes post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? Researchers don't know why some people get PTSD and others don't. Genetics, neurobiology, risk factors, and personal factors may affect whether you get PTSD after a traumatic event. Who is at risk for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? You can develop PTSD at any age. Many risk factors play a part in whether you will develop PTSD. They include Your sex; women are more likely to develop PTSD Having had trauma in childhood Feeling horror, helplessness, or extreme fear Going through a traumatic event that lasts a long time Having little or no social support after the event Dealing with extra stress after the event, such as loss of a loved one, pain and injury, or loss of a job or home Having a history of mental illness or substance use What are the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? There are four types of PTSD symptoms, but they may not be the same for everyone. Each person experiences symptoms in their own way. The types are Re-experiencing symptoms , where something reminds you of the trauma and you feel that fear again. Examples include Flashbacks, which cause you to feel like you are going through the event again Nightmares Frightening thoughts Avoidance symptoms , where you try to avoid situations or people that trigger memories of the traumatic event. This may cause you to Stay away from places, events, or objects that are reminders of the traumatic experience. For example, if you were in a car accident, you might stop driving. Avoiding thoughts or feelings related to the traumatic event. For example, you might try to stay very busy to try to avoid thinking about what happened. Arousal and reactivity symptoms , which may cause you to be jittery or be on the lookout for danger. They include Being easily startled Feeling tense or ""on edge"" Having difficulty sleeping Having angry outbursts Cognition and mood symptoms , which are negative changes in beliefs and feelings. They include Trouble remembering important things about the traumatic event Negative thoughts about yourself or the world Feeling blame and guilt No longer being interested in things you enjoyed Trouble concentrating The symptoms usually start soon after the traumatic event. But sometimes they may not appear until months or years later. They also may come and go over many years. If your symptoms last longer than four weeks, cause you great distress, or interfere with your work or home life, you might have PTSD. How is post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) diagnosed? A health care provider who has experience helping people with mental illnesses can diagnose PTSD. The provider will do a mental health screening and may also do a physical exam. To get a diagnosis of PTSD, you must have all of these symptoms for at least one month: At least one re-experiencing symptom At least one avoidance symptom At least two arousal and reactivity symptoms At least two cognition and mood symptoms What are the treatments for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? The main treatments for PTSD are talk therapy, medicines, or both. PTSD affects people differently, so a treatment that works for one person may not work for another. If you have PTSD, you need to work with a mental health professional to find the best treatment for your symptoms. Talk therapy , or psychotherapy, which can teach you about your symptoms. You will learn how to identify what triggers them and how to manage them. There are different types of talk therapy for PTSD. Medicines can help with the symptoms of PTSD. Antidepressants may help control symptoms such as sadness, worry, anger, and feeling numb inside. Other medicines can help with sleep problems and nightmares. Can post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) be prevented? There are certain factors that can help reduce the risk of developing PTSD. These are known as resilience factors, and they include Seeking out support from other people, such as friends, family, or a support group Learning to feel good about your actions in the face of danger Having a coping strategy or a way of getting through the bad event and learning from it Being able to act and respond effectively despite feeling fear Researchers are studying the importance of the resilience and risk factors for PTSD. They are also studying how genetics and neurobiology can affect the risk of PTSD. With more research, someday it may be possible to predict who is likely to develop PTSD. This could also help in finding ways to prevent it. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Postpartum Care,https://medlineplus.gov/postpartumcare.html,It is important to take care of yourself post-pregnancy. Postpartum care includes managing physical and emotional challenges after your baby is born.," Taking home a new baby is one of the happiest times in a woman's life. But it also presents both physical and emotional challenges. Get as much rest as possible. You may find that all you can do is eat, sleep, and care for your baby. And that is perfectly okay. You will have spotting or bleeding, like a menstrual period, off and on for up to six weeks. You might also have swelling in your legs and feet, feel constipated, have menstrual-like cramping. Even if you are not breastfeeding, you can have milk leaking from your nipples, and your breasts might feel full, tender, or uncomfortable. Follow your doctor's instructions on how much activity, like climbing stairs or walking, you can do for the next few weeks. Doctors usually recommend that you abstain from sexual intercourse for four to six weeks after birth. In addition to physical changes, you may feel sad or have the ""baby blues."" If you are extremely sad or are unable to care for yourself or your baby, you might have a serious condition called postpartum depression . Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Postpartum Depression,https://medlineplus.gov/postpartumdepression.html,Postpartum (post-pregnancy) depression can begin anytime within the first year after childbirth. Learn about the symptoms of postpartum depression.," Many women have the baby blues after childbirth. If you have the baby blues, you may have mood swings, feel sad, anxious or overwhelmed, have crying spells, lose your appetite, or have trouble sleeping. The baby blues most often go away within a few days or a week. The symptoms are not severe and do not need treatment. The symptoms of postpartum depression last longer and are more severe. You may also feel hopeless and worthless and lose interest in the baby. You may have thoughts of hurting yourself or the baby. Very rarely, new mothers develop something even more serious. They may have hallucinations or try to hurt themselves or the baby. They need to get treatment right away, often in the hospital. Postpartum depression can begin anytime within the first year after childbirth. The cause is unknown. Hormonal and physical changes after birth and the stress of caring for a new baby may play a role. Women who have had depression are at higher risk. If you think you have postpartum depression, tell your health care provider. Medicines, including antidepressants , and talk therapy can help you get well. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Potassium,https://medlineplus.gov/potassium.html,Potassium is amineral that the body needs to work normally. Read more about potassium and learn about potassium rich foods to add to your diet.," Potassium is a mineral that your body needs to work properly. It is a type of electrolyte . It helps your nerves to function and muscles to contract. It helps your heartbeat stay regular. It also helps move nutrients into cells and waste products out of cells. A diet rich in potassium helps to offset some of sodium's harmful effects on blood pressure. Many people get all the potassium they need from what they eat and drink. Sources of potassium in the diet include Leafy greens, such as spinach and collards Fruit from vines, such as grapes and blackberries Root vegetables, such as carrots and potatoes Citrus fruits, such as oranges and grapefruit Your kidneys help to keep the right amount of potassium in your body. If you have chronic kidney disease , your kidneys may not remove extra potassium from the blood. Some medicines also can raise your potassium level. You may need a special diet to lower the amount of potassium that you eat."
Prader-Willi Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/praderwillisyndrome.html,"Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a rare genetic disorder. It causes poor muscle tone, low levels of sex hormones and a constant feeling of hunger."," Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a rare genetic disorder. It causes poor muscle tone, low levels of sex hormones and a constant feeling of hunger. The part of the brain that controls feelings of fullness or hunger does not work properly in people with PWS. They overeat, leading to obesity . Babies with PWS are usually floppy, with poor muscle tone, and have trouble sucking. Boys may have undescended testicles. Later, other signs appear. These include Short stature Poor motor skills Weight gain Underdeveloped sex organs Mild intellectual and learning disabilities There is no cure for PWS. Growth hormone, exercise, and dietary supervision can help build muscle mass and control weight. Other treatments may include sex hormones and behavior therapy. Most people with PWS will need specialized care and supervision throughout their lives. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Preconception Care,https://medlineplus.gov/preconceptioncare.html,Preconception care is care you receive before you get pregnant. It involves taking care of problems that might affect you and your baby later. ," If you are trying to have a baby or are just thinking about it, it is not too early to prepare for a safe pregnancy and a healthy baby. You should see your health care provider for preconception care. Preconception care is care you receive before you get pregnant. Your health care provider can help you figure out which steps you need to take now, such as Finding and taking care of any problems that might affect you and your baby later, like diabetes or high blood pressure Increasing the amount of folic acid you get to prevent neural tube defects Getting up to date on vaccines Avoiding smoking, drinking alcohol, or taking drugs Trying to reach a healthy weight By taking action on health issues before pregnancy, you can prevent many future problems for yourself and your baby. Once you're pregnant, you'll get prenatal care until your baby is born. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Prediabetes,https://medlineplus.gov/prediabetes.html,Prediabetes happens when your blood sugar levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be calleddiabetes.," What is prediabetes? Prediabetes means that your blood glucose, or blood sugar , levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be called diabetes . Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Too much glucose in your blood can damage your body over time. If you have prediabetes, you are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes , heart disease , and stroke . But if you make some lifestyle changes now, you may be able to delay or prevent type 2 diabetes. What causes prediabetes? Prediabetes usually happens when your body has a problem with insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. A problem with insulin could be Insulin resistance, a condition in which the body can't use its insulin properly. It makes it hard for your cells to get glucose from your blood. This can cause your blood sugar levels to rise. Your body can't make enough insulin to keep your blood sugar levels at a healthy level Researchers think that being overweight and not getting regular physical activity are major factors in causing prediabetes. Who is at risk for prediabetes? About 1 out of every 3 adults has prediabetes. It is more common in people who Are overweight or have obesity Are age 45 or older Have a parent, brother, or sister with diabetes Are African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander American Are not physically active Have health conditions such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol Have had gestational diabetes (diabetes in pregnancy) Have a history of heart disease or stroke Have metabolic syndrome Have polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) What are the symptoms of prediabetes? Most people don't know they have prediabetes because usually there are no symptoms. Some people with prediabetes may have darkened skin in the armpit or on the back and sides of the neck. They may also have many small skin growths in those same areas. How is prediabetes diagnosed? There are a few different blood tests that can diagnose prediabetes. The most common ones are Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) test, which measures your blood sugar at a single point in time. You need to fast (not eat or drink) for at least 8 hours before the test. The results of the test are given in mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter): A normal level is 99 or below Prediabetes is 100 to 125 Type 2 diabetes is 126 and above A1C test , which measures your average blood sugar over the past 3 months. The results of an A1C test are given as a percentage. The higher the percentage, the higher your blood sugar levels have been. A normal level is below 5.7% Prediabetes is between 5.7 to 6.4% Type 2 diabetes is above 6.5% If I have prediabetes, will I get diabetes? If you have prediabetes, you may be able to delay or prevent type 2 diabetes through lifestyle changes: Losing weight , if you are overweight Getting regular physical activity Following a healthy, reduced-calorie eating plan In some cases, your health care provider may also recommend taking diabetes medicines . Can prediabetes be prevented? If you are at risk for prediabetes, those same lifestyle changes (losing weight, regular physical activity, and a healthy eating plan) may prevent you from getting it. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancy.html,"If you're pregnant, getting the prenatal care you need for a healthy pregnancy is important. Get all of the details right here."," You're going to have a baby! It's an exciting time, but it can also feel a bit overwhelming. You may have a lot of questions, including what you can do to give your baby a healthy start. To keep you and your baby healthy during pregnancy, it is important to Have regular visits with your health care provider. These prenatal care visits help make sure that you and your baby are healthy. And if there are any health problems, your provider can find them early. Getting treatment right away can cure many problems and prevent others. Eat healthy and drink plenty of water. Good nutrition during pregnancy includes eating a variety of Fruits Vegetables Whole grains Lean meats or other protein sources Low-fat dairy products Take prenatal vitamins. Pregnant women need higher amounts of certain vitamins and minerals, such as folic acid and iron . Be careful with medicines. Always check with your health care provider before you start or stop any medicine . This includes over-the-counter medicines and dietary or herbal supplements. Stay active. Physical activity can help you stay strong, feel and sleep better, and prepare your body for birth. Check with your provider about which types of activities are right for you. Avoid substances that could hurt your baby, such as alcohol, drugs, and tobacco . Your body will keep changing as your baby grows . It can be hard to know whether a new symptom is normal or could be a sign of a problem . Check with your health care provider if something is bothering or worrying you."
Pregnancy and Drug Use,https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyanddruguse.html,"During pregnancy, substance abuse can harm your baby. Learn about why to stay away from smoking, drinking, and illegal drugs, and how to get help."," When you are pregnant , you are not just ""eating for two."" You also breathe and drink for two. If you smoke, use alcohol or take illegal drugs, so does your unborn baby. To protect your baby, you should avoid Tobacco. Smoking during pregnancy passes nicotine, carbon monoxide, and other harmful chemicals to your baby. This could cause many problems for your unborn baby's development. It raises the risk of your baby being born too small , too early , or with birth defects . Smoking can also affect babies after they are born. Your baby would be more likely to develop diseases such as asthma and obesity. There is also a higher risk of dying from sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Drinking alcohol. There is no known amount of alcohol that is safe for a woman to drink during pregnancy. If you drink alcohol when you are pregnant, your child could be born with lifelong fetal alcohol syndrome disorders (FASD). Children with FASD can have a mix of physical, behavioral, and learning problems. Illegal drugs. Using illegal drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamines may cause underweight babies, birth defects, or withdrawal symptoms after birth. Misusing prescription drugs. If you are taking prescription medicines, carefully follow your health care provider's instructions. It can be dangerous to take more medicines than you are supposed to, use them to get high, or take someone else's medicines. For example, misusing opioids can cause birth defects, withdrawal in the baby, or even loss of the baby. If you are pregnant and you are doing any of these things, get help. Your health care provider can recommend programs to help you quit. You and your baby's health depend on it. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Pregnancy and Medicines,https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html,"Not all medicines are safe to take when you are pregnant. Some medicines can harm your baby, including over-the-counter drugs, herbs and supplements."," Not all medicines are safe to take when you are pregnant . Some medicines can harm your baby. That includes over-the-counter or prescription drugs, herbs, and supplements. Always speak with your health care provider before you start or stop any medicine. Not using medicine that you need may be more harmful to you and your baby than using the medicine. For example, many pregnant women take prescription medicines for health problems like diabetes, asthma, seizures, and heartburn. The decision about whether or not to take a medicine depends on the risks and benefits. You and your health care provider should make this choice together. Pregnant women should not take regular vitamins. They may have too much or too little of the vitamins that you need. There are special vitamins for pregnant women. It is important to take 0.4 mg of folic acid every day before you become pregnant through the first part of your pregnancy. Folic acid helps to prevent birth defects of the baby's brain or spine. Food and Drug Administration"
Pregnancy and Nutrition,https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandnutrition.html,"When you're pregnant, it is important to eat healthy. The foods you eat are the main source of nutrients for your baby."," What is nutrition, and why is it important during pregnancy? Nutrition is about eating a healthy and balanced diet so your body gets the nutrients that it needs. Nutrients are substances in foods that our bodies need so they can function and grow. They include carbohydrates , fats , proteins , vitamins , minerals , and water. When you're pregnant , nutrition is more important than ever. You need more of many important nutrients than you did before pregnancy. Making healthy food choices every day will help you give your baby what he or she needs to develop . It will also help make sure that you and your baby gain the proper amount of weight. Do I have any special nutrition needs now that I am pregnant? You need more folic acid, iron, calcium, and vitamin D than you did before pregnancy: Folic acid is a B vitamin that may help prevent certain birth defects . Before pregnancy, you need 400 mcg (micrograms) per day. During pregnancy and when breastfeeding, you need 600 mcg per day from foods or vitamins. It is hard to get this amount from foods alone, so you need to take a supplement that contains folic acid. Iron is important for your baby's growth and brain development. During pregnancy, the amount of blood in your body increases, so you need more iron for yourself and your growing baby. You should get 27 mg (milligrams) of iron a day. Calcium during pregnancy can reduce your risk of preeclampsia , a serious medical condition that causes a sudden increase in blood pressure. Calcium also builds up your baby's bones and teeth. Pregnant adults should get 1,000 mg (milligrams) of calcium a day Pregnant teenagers (ages 14-18) need 1,300 mg of calcium a day Vitamin D helps the calcium to build up the baby's bones and teeth. All women, pregnant or not, should be getting 600 IU (international units) of vitamin D per day. Keep in mind that taking too much of a supplement can be harmful. For example, very high levels of vitamin A can cause birth defects. Only take vitamins and mineral supplements that your health care provider recommends. You also need more protein when you are pregnant. Healthy sources of protein include beans, peas, eggs, lean meats, seafood, and unsalted nuts and seeds. Hydration is another special nutritional concern during pregnancy. When you are pregnant, your body needs even more water to stay hydrated and support the life inside you. So it's important to drink enough fluids every day. How much weight should I gain during my pregnancy? How much weight you should gain depends on your health and how much you weighed before pregnancy: If you were at a normal weight before pregnancy, you should gain about 25 to 35 pounds If you were underweight before pregnancy, you should gain more If you were overweight or had obesity before you become pregnant, you should gain less Check with your health care provider to find out how much weight gain during pregnancy is healthy for you. You should gain the weight gradually during your pregnancy, with most of the weight gained in the last trimester. Do I need to eat more calories when I am pregnant? How many calories you need depends on your weight gain goals. Your health care provider can tell you what your goal should be, based on things like your weight before pregnancy, your age, and how fast you gain weight. The general recommendations are In the first trimester of pregnancy, you probably do not need extra calories In the second trimester, you usually need about 340 extra calories In the last trimester, you may need around 450 extra calories per day During the final weeks of pregnancy, you may not need extra calories Keep in mind that not all calories are equal. You should eat healthy foods that are packed with nutrients - not ""empty calories"" such as those found in soft drinks, candies, and desserts. What foods should I avoid during pregnancy? During pregnancy, you should avoid Alcohol. There is no known amount of alcohol that is safe for a woman to drink during pregnancy . Fish that may have high levels of mercury. Limit white (albacore) tuna to 6 ounces per week. Do not eat tilefish, shark, swordfish, or king mackerel. Foods that are more likely to contain germs that could cause foodborne illness , including Refrigerated smoked seafood like whitefish, salmon, and mackerel Hot dogs or deli meats unless steaming hot Refrigerated meat spreads Unpasteurized milk or juices Store-made salads, such as chicken, egg, or tuna salad Unpasteurized soft cheeses, such as unpasteurized feta, Brie, queso blanco, queso fresco, and blue cheeses Raw sprouts of any kind (including alfalfa, clover, radish, and mung bean) Too much caffeine . Drinking high amounts of caffeine may be harmful for your baby. Small or moderate amounts of caffeine (less than 200 mg (milligrams) per day) appear to be safe during pregnancy. This is the amount in about 12 ounces of coffee. But more research is needed. Check with your health care provider about whether drinking a limited amount of caffeine is okay for you."
Pregnancy and Opioids,https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandopioids.html,"There are risks to both you and your baby if you take opioids during pregnancy. Learn about these risks, what you should do if you get pregnant while taking opioids, and how opioid use disorders are treated in pregnancy."," Many women need to take medicines while they are pregnant . But not all medicines are safe during pregnancy. Many medicines carry risks for you, your baby, or both. Opioids, especially when misused, can cause problems for you and your baby while you are pregnant. What are opioids? Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong prescription pain relievers , such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe them for chronic pain . Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, opioid dependence, addiction , and overdose are still potential risks. These risks increase when these medicines are misused. Misuse means you are not taking the medicines according to your provider's instructions, you are using them to get high, or you are taking someone else's opioids. What are the risks of taking opioids during pregnancy? Taking opioids during pregnancy can cause problems for you and your baby. The possible risks include Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) - withdrawal symptoms (irritability, seizures, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and poor feeding) in newborns Neural tube defects - birth defects of the brain, spine, or spinal cord Congenital heart defects - problems with the structure of the baby's heart Gastroschisis - a birth defect of the baby's abdomen, where the intestines stick outside of the body through a hole beside the belly button Loss of the baby, either miscarriage (before 20 weeks of pregnancy) or stillbirth (after 20 or more weeks) Preterm delivery - a birth before 37 weeks Stunted growth, leading to low birthweight Some women need to take opioid pain medicine while they are pregnant. If your health care provider suggests that you take opioids during pregnancy, you should first discuss the risks and benefits. Then if you both decide that you need to take the opioids, you should work together to try to minimize the risks. Some of the ways to do this include Taking them for the shortest time possible Taking the lowest dose that will help you Carefully following your provider's instructions for taking the medicines Contacting your provider if you have side effects Going to all your follow-up appointments If I am already taking opioids and I become pregnant, what should I do? If you have been taking opioids and you become pregnant, contact your health care provider. You should not stop taking the opioids on your own. If you suddenly stop taking opioids, it could cause severe health problems for you or your baby. In some cases, stopping suddenly during pregnancy may be more harmful than taking the medicines. Can I breastfeed while taking opioids? Many women who regularly take opioid medicines can breastfeed. It depends on which medicine you are taking. Check with your health care provider before breastfeeding. There are some women who should not breastfeed, such as those who have HIV or take illegal drugs. What are the treatments for opioid use disorders in pregnancy? If you are pregnant and have an opioid use disorder, do not stop taking opioids suddenly. Instead, see your health care provider so you can get help. The treatment for opioid use disorder is medication-assisted therapy (MAT). MAT includes medicine and counseling: Medicine can reduce your cravings and withdrawal symptoms. For pregnant women, health care providers use either buprenorphine or methadone. Counseling , including behavioral therapies, which can help you Change your attitudes and behaviors related to drug use Build healthy life skills Continue taking your medicine and getting prenatal care"
Premature Babies,https://medlineplus.gov/prematurebabies.html,A premature birth is when a baby is born before 37 completed weeks of pregnancy. Premature babies may have health problems and need special care.," Almost 1 of every 10 infants born in the United States are premature, or preemies. A premature birth is when a baby is born before 37 completed weeks of pregnancy. A full-term pregnancy is 40 weeks. Important growth and development happen throughout pregnancy - especially in the final months and weeks. Because they are born too early, preemies weigh much less than full-term babies. They may have health problems because their organs did not have enough time to develop. Problems that a baby born too early may have include Breathing problems Feeding difficulties Cerebral palsy Developmental delay Vision problems Hearing problems Preemies need special medical care in a neonatal intensive care unit, or NICU. They stay there until their organ systems can work on their own. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Premenstrual Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/premenstrualsyndrome.html,"For some women, premenstrual syndrome (PMS) may be so severe it can interfere with normal activities. Find out what you can do to lessen symptoms."," Premenstrual syndrome, or PMS, is a group of symptoms that start one to two weeks before your period. Most women have at least some symptoms of PMS, and the symptoms go away after their periods start. For some women, the symptoms are severe enough to interfere with their lives. They have a type of PMS called premenstrual dysphoric disorder, or PMDD. Common PMS symptoms include Breast swelling and tenderness Acne Bloating and weight gain Pain - headache or joint pain Food cravings Irritability, mood swings, crying spells, depression No one knows what causes PMS, but hormonal changes trigger the symptoms. No single PMS treatment works for everyone. Over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen, aspirin or naproxen may help ease cramps, headaches, backaches and breast tenderness. Exercising, getting enough sleep, and avoiding salt, caffeine, and alcohol can also help. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Prenatal Care,https://medlineplus.gov/prenatalcare.html,Getting the right prenatal care is important for a healthy pregnancy. Learn what exams or tests you need so you can the most out of your appointments.," Prenatal care is the health care you get while you are pregnant . It includes your checkups and prenatal testing . Prenatal care can help keep you and your baby healthy. It lets your health care provider spot health problems early. Early treatment can cure many problems and prevent others. Your doctor or midwife will give you a schedule for your prenatal visits. If you are over 35 years old or your pregnancy is high risk because of health problems like diabetes or high blood pressure , your doctor or midwife will probably want to see you more often. You can also expect to see your health care provider more often as your due date gets closer. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Prenatal Testing,https://medlineplus.gov/prenataltesting.html,"Learn how prenatal testing checks on the health of you and your baby during pregnancy. Some tests are routine, and some are for women at high risk."," Prenatal testing provides information about your baby's health before he or she is born. Some routine tests during pregnancy also check on your health. At your first prenatal visit , your health care provider will test for a number of things, including problems with your blood, signs of infections , and whether you are immune to rubella (German measles) and chickenpox . Throughout your pregnancy, your health care provider may suggest a number of other tests, too. Some tests are suggested for all women, such as screenings for gestational diabetes , Down syndrome , and HIV . Other tests might be offered based on your Age Personal or family medical history Ethnic background Results of routine tests There are two types of tests: Screening tests are tests that are done to see if you or your baby might have certain problems. They evaluate risk, but do not diagnose problems. If your screening test result is abnormal, it does not mean that there is a problem. It means that more information is needed. Your health care provider can explain what the test results mean and possible next steps. You may need diagnostic testing. Diagnostic tests show whether or not you or your baby have a certain problem. It is your choice whether or not to get the prenatal tests. You and your health care provider can discuss the risks and benefits of the tests, and what kind of information the tests can give you. Then you can decide which ones are right for you. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Prescription Drug Misuse,https://medlineplus.gov/prescriptiondrugmisuse.html,Prescription drug abuse happens when you take medicine in a way that is different from what your doctor prescribed.," If you take a medicine in a way that is different from what the doctor prescribed, it is called prescription drug misuse. It could be Taking a medicine that was prescribed for someone else Taking a larger dose than you are supposed to Taking the medicine in a different way than you are supposed to. This might be crushing tablets and then snorting or injecting them. Using the medicine for another purpose, such as getting high Misusing some prescription drugs can lead to addiction. These include opioids , sedatives, tranquilizers, and stimulants. Every medicine has some risk of side effects. Doctors take this into account when prescribing medicines. People who misuse these drugs may not understand the risks. The medicines may not be safe for them, especially at higher doses or when taken with other medicines. NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse"
Pressure Sores,https://medlineplus.gov/pressuresores.html,Bedsores (decubitus ulcers) are caused by pressure to areas of skin when resting in a position for too long. Complications can be serious. Learn why.," Pressure sores are areas of damaged skin caused by staying in one position for too long. They commonly form where your bones are close to your skin, such as your ankles, back, elbows, heels and hips. You are at risk if you are bedridden, use a wheelchair, or are unable to change your position. Pressure sores can cause serious infections, some of which are life-threatening. They can be a problem for people in nursing homes. You can prevent the sores by Keeping skin clean and dry Changing position every two hours Using pillows and products that relieve pressure Pressure sores have a variety of treatments. Advanced sores are slow to heal, so early treatment is best."
Preterm Labor,https://medlineplus.gov/pretermlabor.html,Preterm labor is labor that begins before the 37th week of pregnancy. Learn what signs to look for in a preterm labor such as cramps or bleeding.," Preterm labor is labor that starts before 37 completed weeks of pregnancy. It can lead to premature birth. Premature babies may face serious health risks. Symptoms of preterm labor include Contractions every 10 minutes or more often Leaking fluid or bleeding from the vagina Feeling of pressure in the pelvis Low, dull backache Cramps that feel like menstrual cramps Abdominal cramps with or without diarrhea If you think you might be having preterm labor, contact your health care provider. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Primary Ovarian Insufficiency,https://medlineplus.gov/primaryovarianinsufficiency.html,"Primary ovarian insufficiency(POI) happens when a woman's ovaries stop working before she is 40. POI is different from premature menopause. Learn about the causes, and how to treat the symptoms and complications."," What is primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)? Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), also known as premature ovarian failure, happens when a woman's ovaries stop working normally before she is 40. Many women naturally experience reduced fertility when they are about 40 years old. They may start getting irregular menstrual periods as they transition to menopause. For women with POI, irregular periods and reduced fertility start before the age of 40. Sometimes it can start as early as the teenage years. POI is different from premature menopause . With premature menopause, your periods stop before age 40. You can no longer get pregnant. The cause can be natural or it can be a disease, surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation. With POI, some women still have occasional periods. They may even get pregnant. In most cases of POI, the cause is unknown. What causes primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)? In about 90% of cases, the exact cause of POI is unknown. Research shows that POI is related to problems with the follicles. Follicles are small sacs in your ovaries. Your eggs grow and mature inside them. One type of follicle problem is that you run out of working follicles earlier than normal. Another is that the follicles are not working properly. In most cases, the cause of the follicle problem is unknown. But sometimes the cause may be Genetic disorders such as Fragile X syndrome and Turner syndrome A low number of follicles Autoimmune diseases, including thyroiditis and Addison disease Chemotherapy or radiation therapy Metabolic disorders Toxins, such as cigarette smoke , chemicals, and pesticides Who is at risk for primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)? Certain factors can raise a woman's risk of POI: Family history. Women who have a mother or sister with POI are more likely to have it. Genes. Some changes to genes and genetic conditions put women at higher risk for POI. For example, women Fragile X syndrome or Turner syndrome are at higher risk. Certain diseases, such as autoimmune diseases and viral infections Cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy Age. Younger women can get POI, but it becomes more common between the ages of 35-40. What are the symptoms of primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)? The first sign of POI is usually irregular or missed periods. Later symptoms may be similar to those of natural menopause: Hot flashes Night sweats Irritability Poor concentration Decreased sex drive Pain during sex Vaginal dryness For many women with POI, trouble getting pregnant or infertility is the reason they go to their health care provider. What other problems can primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) cause? Since POI causes you to have lower levels of certain hormones, you are at greater risk for other health conditions, including Anxiety and depression. Hormonal changes caused by POI can contribute to anxiety or lead to depression . Dry eye syndrome and eye surface disease. Some women with POI have one of these eye conditions. Both can cause discomfort and may lead to blurred vision. If not treated, these conditions can cause permanent eye damage. Heart disease. Lower levels of estrogen can affect the muscles lining the arteries and can increase the buildup of cholesterol in the arteries. These factors increase your risk of atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries). Infertility. Low thyroid function. This problem also is called hypothyroidism . The thyroid is a gland that makes hormones that control your body's metabolism and energy level. Low levels thyroid hormones can affect your metabolism and can cause very low energy, mental sluggishness, and other symptoms. Osteoporosis. The hormone estrogen helps keep bones strong. Without enough estrogen, women with POI often develop osteoporosis . It is a bone disease that causes weak, brittle bones that are more likely to break . How is primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) diagnosed? To diagnose POI, your health care provider may do A medical history, including asking whether you have relatives with POI A pregnancy test, to make sure that you are not pregnant A physical exam, to look for signs of other disorders which could be causing your symptoms Blood tests, to check for certain hormone levels. You may also have a blood test to do a chromosome analysis. A chromosome is the part of a cell that contains genetic information. A pelvic ultrasound, to see whether or not the ovaries are enlarged or have multiple follicles How is primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) treated? Currently, there is no proven treatment to restore normal function to a woman's ovaries. But there are treatments for some of the symptoms of POI. There are also ways to lower your health risks and treat the conditions that POI can cause: Hormone replacement therapy (HRT). HRT is the most common treatment. It gives your body the estrogen and other hormones that your ovaries are not making. HRT improves sexual health and decreases the risks for heart disease and osteoporosis. You usually take it until about age 50; that's about the age when menopause usually begins. Calcium and vitamin D supplements. Because women with POI are at higher risk for osteoporosis, you should take calcium and vitamin D every day. In vitro fertilization (IVF). If you have POI and you wish to become pregnant, you may consider trying IVF . Regular physical activity and a healthy body weight. Getting regular exercise and controlling your weight can lower your risk for osteoporosis and heart disease. Treatments for associated conditions. If you have a condition that is related to POI, it is important to treat that as well. Treatments may involve medicines and hormones. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy,https://medlineplus.gov/progressivesupranuclearpalsy.html,"Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare brain disease. It causes problems with balance, eye movement, and walking. Learn about what can help."," What is progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)? Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare brain disease . It happens because of damage to nerve cells in the brain. PSP affects your movement , including control of your walking and balance . It also affects your thinking and eye movement . PSP is progressive, which means that it gets worse over time. What causes progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)? The cause of PSP is unknown. In rare cases, the cause is a mutation in a certain gene. One sign of PSP is abnormal clumps of tau in nerve cells in the brain. Tau is a protein in your nervous system, including in nerve cells. Some other diseases also cause a buildup of tau in the brain, including Alzheimer's disease . Who is at risk for progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)? PSP usually affects people over 60, but in some cases it can start earlier. It is more common in men. What are the symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)? Symptoms are very different in each person, but they may include A loss of balance while walking. This is often the first symptom. Speech problems Trouble swallowing A blurring of vision and problems controlling eye movement Changes in mood and behavior, including depression and apathy (a loss of interest and enthusiasm) Mild dementia How is progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP0 diagnosed? There is no specific test for PSP. It can be difficult to diagnose, because the symptoms are similar to other diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will take your medical history and do physical and neurological exams. You may have an MRI or other imaging tests. What are the treatments for progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)? There is currently no effective treatment for PSP. Medicines may reduce some symptoms. Some non-drug treatments, such as walking aids and special glasses, may also help. People with severe swallowing problems may need gastrostomy. This is a surgery to insert a feeding tube into the stomach. PSP gets worse over time. Many people become severely disabled within three to five years after getting it. PSP isn't life-threatening on its own. It can still be be dangerous, because it increases your risk of pneumonia , choking from swallowing problems, and injuries from falling . But with good attention to medical and nutritional needs, many people with PSP can live 10 or more years after the first symptoms of the disease. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Prostate Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/prostatecancer.html,"Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer among American men. The risk goes up as men age. Learn about symptoms, tests, and treatment."," The prostate is the gland below a man's bladder that produces fluid for semen. Prostate cancer is common among older men. It is rare in men younger than 40. Risk factors for developing prostate cancer include being over 65 years of age, family history, and being African American. Symptoms of prostate cancer may include Problems passing urine, such as pain, difficulty starting or stopping the stream, or dribbling Low back pain Pain with ejaculation To diagnose prostate cancer, you doctor may do a digital rectal exam to feel the prostate for lumps or anything unusual. You may also get a blood test for prostate-specific antigen (PSA). These tests are also used in prostate cancer screening , which looks for cancer before you have symptoms. If your results are abnormal, you may need more tests, such as an ultrasound , MRI , or biopsy . Treatment often depends on the stage of the cancer. How fast the cancer grows and how different it is from surrounding tissue helps determine the stage. Men with prostate cancer have many treatment options. The treatment that's best for one man may not be best for another. The options include watchful waiting, surgery, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, and chemotherapy. You may have a combination of treatments. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Prostate Cancer Screening,https://medlineplus.gov/prostatecancerscreening.html,"Prostate cancer screening tests include the PSA. Read more; then talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits, and whether you should be screened."," The prostate is the gland below a man's bladder that produces fluid for semen. Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any symptoms. Cancer found early may be easier to treat. There is no standard screening test for prostate cancer . Researchers are studying different tests to find those with the fewest risks and most benefits. One test is the digital rectal exam (DRE). The doctor or nurse inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into your rectum to feel the prostate for lumps or anything unusual. Another test is the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test. Your PSA level may be high if you have prostate cancer. It can also be high if you have an enlarged prostate (BPH) or other prostate problems. If your screening results are abnormal, your doctor may do more tests, such as an ultrasound , MRI , or a biopsy . Prostate cancer screening has risks: Finding prostate cancer may not improve your health or help you live longer The results can sometimes be wrong Follow-up tests, such as a biopsy, may have complications You and your doctor should discuss your risk for prostate cancer, the pros and cons of the screening tests, and whether you should get them."
Prostate Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/prostatediseases.html,"A man's prostate grows as he gets older, increasing the risk of problems. Learn about the different types of prostate problems, including prostatitis."," The prostate is a gland in men. It helps make semen, the fluid that contains sperm. The prostate surrounds the tube that carries urine away from the bladder and out of the body. A young man's prostate is about the size of a walnut. It slowly grows larger with age. If it gets too large, it can cause problems. This is very common after age 50. The older men get, the more likely they are to have prostate trouble. Some common problems are Prostatitis - inflammation, usually caused by bacteria Enlarged prostate (BPH) , or benign prostatic hyperplasia - a common problem in older men which may cause dribbling after urination or a need to go often, especially at night Prostate cancer - a common cancer that responds best to treatment when detected early NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Psoriasis,https://medlineplus.gov/psoriasis.html,"Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. Some people also get psoriasis arthritis."," Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. You usually get the patches on your elbows, knees, scalp, back, face, palms and feet, but they can show up on other parts of your body. Some people who have psoriasis also get a form of arthritis called psoriatic arthritis . A problem with your immune system causes psoriasis. In a process called cell turnover, skin cells that grow deep in your skin rise to the surface. Normally, this takes a month. In psoriasis, it happens in just days because your cells rise too fast. Psoriasis can be hard to diagnose because it can look like other skin diseases. Your doctor might need to look at a small skin sample under a microscope. Psoriasis can last a long time, even a lifetime. Symptoms come and go. Things that make them worse include Infections Stress Dry skin Certain medicines Psoriasis usually occurs in adults. It sometimes runs in families. Treatments include creams, medicines, and light therapy. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Psoriatic Arthritis,https://medlineplus.gov/psoriaticarthritis.html,"Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. Find out about symptoms and treatment."," Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. You usually get them on your elbows, knees, scalp, back, face, palms and feet, but they can show up on other parts of your body. Some people with psoriasis have psoriatic arthritis. It causes pain, stiffness, and swelling of the joints. It is often mild, but can sometimes be serious and affect many joints. The joint and skin problems don't always happen at the same time. Your doctor will do a physical exam and imaging tests to diagnose psoriatic arthritis. There is no cure, but medicines can help control inflammation and pain. In rare cases, you might need surgery to repair or replace damaged joints."
Psychotic Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/psychoticdisorders.html,Psychotic disorders are severe mental disorders that cause abnormal thinking and perceptions.Two main symptoms are delusions and hallucinations. ," Psychotic disorders are severe mental disorders that cause abnormal thinking and perceptions. People with psychoses lose touch with reality. Two of the main symptoms are delusions and hallucinations. Delusions are false beliefs, such as thinking that someone is plotting against you or that the TV is sending you secret messages. Hallucinations are false perceptions, such as hearing, seeing, or feeling something that is not there. Schizophrenia is one type of psychotic disorder. People with bipolar disorder may also have psychotic symptoms. Other problems that can cause psychosis include alcohol and some drugs, brain tumors, brain infections, and stroke. Treatment depends on the cause of the psychosis. It might involve drugs to control symptoms and talk therapy. Hospitalization is an option for serious cases where a person might be dangerous to himself or others."
Puberty,https://medlineplus.gov/puberty.html,"Puberty is the time in life when a boy or girl becomes sexually mature. It causes physical changes, and affects boys and girls differently."," Puberty is the time in life when a boy or girl becomes sexually mature. It is a process that usually happens between ages 10 and 14 for girls and ages 12 and 16 for boys. It causes physical changes, and affects boys and girls differently. In girls: The first sign of puberty is usually breast development. Then hair grows in the pubic area and armpits. Menstruation (or a period) usually happens last. In boys: Puberty usually begins with the testicles and penis getting bigger. Then hair grows in the pubic area and armpits. Muscles grow, the voice deepens, and facial hair develops as puberty continues. Both boys and girls may get acne. They also usually have a growth spurt (a rapid increase in height) that lasts for about 2 or 3 years. This brings them closer to their adult height, which they reach after puberty. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Pubic Lice,https://medlineplus.gov/pubiclice.html,"Pubic lice, or crabs, are tiny parasitic insects. They usually live in the pubic area, and most often spread through sexual contact. Find out how to tell if you have them, and how to treat them."," What are pubic lice? Pubic lice (also called crabs) are tiny insects which usually live in the pubic or genital area of humans. They are also sometimes found on other coarse body hair, such as hair on the legs, armpits, mustache, beard, eyebrows, or eyelashes. Pubic lice on the eyebrows or eyelashes of children or teens may be a sign of sexual exposure or abuse . Pubic lice are parasites, and they need to feed on human blood to survive. They are one of the three types of lice that live on humans. The other two types are head lice and body lice . Each type of lice is different, and getting one type does not mean that you will get another type. How do pubic lice spread? Pubic lice move by crawling, because they cannot hop or fly. They usually spread through sexual contact. Occasionally, they may spread through physical contact with a person who has pubic lice, or through contact with clothing, beds, bed linens, or towels that were used by a person with pubic lice. You cannot get pubic lice from animals. Who is at risk for pubic lice? Since they spread mainly through sexual contact, pubic lice are most common in adults. What are the symptoms of pubic lice? The most common symptom of pubic lice is intense itching in the genital area. You may also see nits (lice eggs) or crawling lice. How do you know if you have pubic lice? A diagnosis of a pubic lice usually comes from seeing a louse or nit. But lice and nits can be difficult to find because there may be only a few present. Also, they often attach themselves to more than one hair, and they do not crawl as quickly as head and body lice. Sometimes it takes a magnifying lens to see the lice or nits. People who have pubic lice should also be checked for other sexually transmitted diseases , and their sexual partners should also be checked for pubic lice. What are the treatments for pubic lice? The main treatment for pubic lice is a lice-killing lotion. Options include a lotion that contains permethrin or a mousse containing pyrethrins and piperonyl butoxide. These products are available over-the-counter without a prescription. They are safe and effective when you use them according to the instructions. Usually one treatment will get rid of the lice. If not, you may need another treatment after 9-10 days. There are other lice-killing medicines that are available with a prescription from your health care provider. You should also wash your clothes, bedding, and towels with hot water, and dry them using the hot cycle of the dryer. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Pulmonary Embolism,https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryembolism.html,A pulmonary embolism is a sudden blockage in a lung artery. The cause is usually a blood clot in the leg called deep vein thrombosis. Learn more.," What is a pulmonary embolism (PE)? A pulmonary embolism (PE) is a sudden blockage in a lung artery. It usually happens when a blood clot breaks loose and travels through the bloodstream to the lungs. PE is a serious condition that can cause Permanent damage to the lungs Low oxygen levels in your blood Damage to other organs in your body from not getting enough oxygen PE can be life-threatening, especially if a clot is large, or if there are many clots. What causes a pulmonary embolism (PE)? The cause is usually a blood clot in the leg called a deep vein thrombosis that breaks loose and travels through the bloodstream to the lung. Who is at risk for a pulmonary embolism (PE)? Anyone can get a pulmonary embolism (PE), but certain things can raise your risk of PE: Having surgery, especially joint replacement surgery Certain medical conditions, including Cancers Heart diseases Lung diseases A broken hip or leg bone or other trauma Hormone-based medicines, such as birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy Pregnancy and childbirth. The risk is highest for about six weeks after childbirth. Not moving for long periods, such as being on bed rest, having a cast, or taking a long plane flight Age. Your risk increases as you get older, especially after age 40. Family history and genetics. Certain genetic changes that can increase your risk of blood clots and PE. Obesity What are the symptoms of a pulmonary embolism (PE)? Half the people who have pulmonary embolism have no symptoms. If you do have symptoms, they can include shortness of breath, chest pain or coughing up blood. Symptoms of a blood clot include warmth, swelling, pain, tenderness and redness of the leg. How is a pulmonary embolism (PE) diagnosed? It can be difficult to diagnose PE. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will Take your medical history, including asking about your symptoms and risk factors for PE Do a physical exam Run some tests, including various imaging tests and possibly some blood tests What are the treatments for a pulmonary embolism (PE)? If you have PE, you need medical treatment right away. The goal of treatment is to break up clots and help keep other clots from forming. Treatment options include medicines and procedures. Medicines Anticoagulants, or blood thinners , keep blood clots from getting larger and stop new clots from forming. You might get them as an injection, a pill, or through an I.V. (intravenous). They can cause bleeding, especially if you are taking other medicines that also thin your blood, such as aspirin. Thrombolytics are medicines to dissolve blood clots. You may get them if you have large clots that cause severe symptoms or other serious complications. Thrombolytics can cause sudden bleeding, so they are used if your PE is serious and may be life-threatening. Procedures Catheter-assisted thrombus removal uses a flexible tube to reach a blood clot in your lung. Your health care provider can insert a tool in the tube to break up the clot or to deliver medicine through the tube. Usually you will get medicine to put you to sleep for this procedure. A vena cava filter may be used in some people who cannot take blood thinners. Your health care provider inserts a filter inside a large vein called the vena cava. The filter catches blood clots before they travel to the lungs, which prevents pulmonary embolism. But the filter does not stop new blood clots from forming. Can pulmonary embolism (PE) be prevented? Preventing new blood clots can prevent PE. Prevention may include Continuing to take blood thinners. It's also important to get regular checkups with your provider, to make sure that the dosage of your medicines is working to prevent blood clots but not causing bleeding. Heart-healthy lifestyle changes, such as heart-healthy eating, exercise, and, if you smoke, quitting smoking Using compression stockings to prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT) Moving your legs when sitting for long periods of time (such as on long trips) Moving around as soon as possible after surgery or being confined to a bed NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Pulmonary Fibrosis,https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryfibrosis.html,Pulmonary fibrosis (Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis or IPF) is a condition where the tissue deep in the lungs becomes scarred over time. Find symptoms.," Pulmonary fibrosis is a condition in which the tissue deep in your lungs becomes scarred over time. This tissue gets thick and stiff. That makes it hard for you to catch your breath, and your blood may not get enough oxygen. Causes of pulmonary fibrosis include environmental pollutants, some medicines, some connective tissue diseases, and interstitial lung disease. Interstitial lung disease is the name for a large group of diseases that inflame or scar the lungs. In most cases, the cause cannot be found. This is called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Symptoms include Shortness of breath A dry, hacking cough that doesn't get better Fatigue Weight loss for no known reason Aching muscles and joints Clubbing, which is the widening and rounding of the tips of the fingers or toes Your doctor may use your medical history, imaging tests, a biopsy, and lung function tests to diagnose pulmonary fibrosis. There is no cure. Treatments can help with symptoms and improve your quality of life. They include medicines, oxygen therapy, pulmonary rehabilitation, or a lung transplant. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Pulmonary Hypertension,https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryhypertension.html,"Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is high blood pressure in the arteries to your lungs. It makes your heart work harder, which can lead to heart failure."," Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is high blood pressure in the arteries to your lungs. It is a serious condition. If you have it, the blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to your lungs become hard and narrow. Your heart has to work harder to pump the blood through. Over time, your heart weakens and cannot do its job and you can develop heart failure . Symptoms of PH include Shortness of breath during routine activity, such as climbing two flights of stairs Tiredness Chest pain A racing heartbeat Pain on the upper right side of the abdomen Decreased appetite As PH worsens, you may find it hard to do any physical activities. There are two main kinds of PH. One runs in families or appears for no known reason. The other kind is related to another condition, usually heart or lung disease . There is no cure for PH. Treatments can control symptoms. They involve treating the heart or lung disease, medicines, oxygen, and sometimes lung transplantation . NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Pulmonary Rehabilitation,https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryrehabilitation.html,"Pulmonary Rehabilitation is a medically supervised program to help people with chronic breathing problems, like COPD or cystic fibrosis. Learn more."," What is pulmonary rehabilitation? Pulmonary rehabilitation, also known as pulmonary rehab or PR, is a program for people who have chronic (ongoing) breathing problems . It can help improve your ability to function and quality of life. PR does not replace your medical treatment. Instead, you use them together. PR is often an outpatient program that you do in a hospital or clinic. Some people have PR in their homes. You work with a team of health care providers to find ways to lessen your symptoms, increase your ability to exercise, and make it easier to do your daily activities. Who needs pulmonary rehabilitation? Your health care provider may recommend pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) if you have a chronic lung disease or another condition that makes it hard for you to breathe and limits your activities. For example, PR may help you if you Have COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The two main types are emphysema and chronic bronchitis . In COPD, your airways (tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs) are partially blocked. This makes it hard to get air in and out. Have an interstitial lung disease such as sarcoidosis and pulmonary fibrosis . These diseases cause scarring of the lungs over time. This makes it hard to get enough oxygen. Have cystic fibrosis (CF). CF is an inherited disease that causes thick, sticky mucus to collect in the lungs and block the airways. Need lung surgery. You may have PR before and after lung surgery to help you prepare for and recover from the surgery. Have a muscle-wasting disorder that affects the muscles used for breathing. An example is muscular dystrophy . PR works best if you start it before your disease is severe. However, even people who have advanced lung disease can benefit from PR. What does pulmonary rehabilitation include? When you first start pulmonary rehabilitation (PR), your team of health care providers will want to learn more about your health. You will have lung function, exercise, and possibly blood tests. Your team will go over your medical history and current treatments. They may check on your mental health and ask about your diet. Then they will work together to create a plan that is right for you. It may include Exercise training. Your team will come up with an exercise plan to improve your endurance and muscle strength. You will likely have exercises for both your arms and legs. You might use a treadmill, stationary bike, or weights. You may need to start slowly and increase your exercise as you get stronger. Nutritional counseling. Being either overweight or underweight can affect your breathing. A nutritious eating plan can help you work towards a healthy weight. Education about your disease and how to manage it. This includes learning how to avoid situations that make your symptoms worse, how to avoid infections, and how/when to take your medicines. Techniques you can use to save your energy. Your team may teach you easier ways to do daily tasks. For example, you may learn ways to avoid reaching, lifting, or bending. Those movements make it harder to breathe, since they use up energy and make you tighten your abdominal muscles. You may also learn how to better deal with stress , since stress can also take up energy and affect your breathing. Breathing strategies. You will learn techniques to improve your breathing. These techniques may increase your oxygen levels, decrease how often you take breaths, and keep your airways open longer. Psychological counseling and/or group support. It can feel scary to have trouble breathing. If you have a chronic lung disease, you are more likely to have depression , anxiety , or other emotional problems. Many PR programs include counseling and/or support groups. If not, your PR team may be able to refer you to an organization that offers them. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Quitting Smoking,https://medlineplus.gov/quittingsmoking.html,Quitting smoking is important for your health. Tobacco use is the most common preventable cause of death. Find the best way for you to quit.," Tobacco use is the most common preventable cause of death. About half of the people who don't quit smoking will die of smoking-related problems. Quitting smoking is important for your health. Soon after you quit, your circulation begins to improve, and your blood pressure starts to return to normal. Your sense of smell and taste return, and it's easier for you to breathe. In the long term, giving up tobacco can help you live longer. Your risk of getting cancer decreases with each year you stay smoke-free. Quitting is not easy. You may have short-term effects such as weight gain, irritability, and anxiety. Some people try several times before they succeed. There are many ways to quit smoking. Some people stop ""cold turkey."" Others benefit from step-by-step manuals, counseling, or medicines or products that help reduce nicotine addiction. Some people think that switching to e-cigarettes can help you quit smoking, but that has not been proven. Your health care provider can help you find the best way for you to quit. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Rabies,https://medlineplus.gov/rabies.html,Rabies is a deadly animal disease caused by a virus. People get it from the bite of an infected animal. Learn about treatments.," Rabies is a deadly animal disease caused by a virus. It can happen in wild animals, including raccoons, skunks, bats and foxes, or in dogs, cats or farm animals. People get it from the bite of an infected animal. In people, symptoms of rabies include fever, headache and fatigue, then confusion, hallucinations and paralysis. Once the symptoms begin, the disease is usually fatal. A series of shots can prevent rabies in people exposed to the virus. You need to get them right away. If an animal bites you, wash the wound well; then get medical care. To help prevent rabies Vaccinate your pet. Rabies vaccines are available for dogs, cats and farm animals Don't let pets roam Don't approach stray animals. Animals with rabies might be aggressive and vicious, or tired and weak Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Radiation Emergencies,https://medlineplus.gov/radiationemergencies.html,A radiation emergency involves exposure to a large amount of radiation. Learn about ways to cope with possible situations and make a disaster plan.," Radiation is a type of energy. People are exposed to small amounts of radiation every day from sources such as sunlight. A radiation emergency would involve larger amounts of radiation and could be caused by Dirty bombs - a mix of explosives with radioactive powder Fallout from a nuclear bomb Accidental release from a nuclear reactor or a nuclear weapons plant A lot of radiation over a short period can cause burns or radiation sickness. If the exposure is large enough, it can cause premature aging or even death. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a radiation emergency, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Radiation Exposure,https://medlineplus.gov/radiationexposure.html,"Radiation exposure to even small amounts over a long time, raises your risk of cancer. A lot over a short time, causes burns or radiation sickness."," What is radiation? Radiation is energy. It travels in the form of energy waves or high-speed particles. Radiation can occur naturally or be man-made. There are two types: Non-ionizing radiation, which includes radio waves, cell phones, microwaves, infrared radiation and visible light Ionizing radiation, which includes ultraviolet radiation, radon , x-rays , and gamma rays What are the sources of radiation exposure? Background radiation is all around us all the time. Most of it forms naturally from minerals. These radioactive minerals are in the ground, soil, water, and even our bodies. Background radiation can also come from outer space and the sun. Other sources are man-made, such as x-rays, radiation therapy to treat cancer, and electrical power lines. What are the health effects of radiation exposure? Radiation has been around us throughout our evolution. So our bodies are designed to deal with the low levels we're exposed to every day. But too much radiation can damage tissues by changing cell structure and damaging DNA. This can cause serious health problems, including cancer. The amount of damage that exposure to radiation can cause depends on several factors, including The type of radiation The dose (amount) of radiation How you were exposed, such as through skin contact, swallowing or breathing it in, or having rays pass through your body Where the radiation concentrates in the body and how long it stays there How sensitive your body is to radiation. A fetus is most vulnerable to the effects of radiation. Infants, children, older adults, pregnant women, and people with compromised immune systems are more vulnerable to health effects than healthy adults. Being exposed to a lot of radiation over a short period of time, such as from a radiation emergency , can cause skin burns . It may also lead to acute radiation syndrome (ARS, or ""radiation sickness""). The symptoms of ARS include headache and diarrhea. They usually start within hours. Those symptoms will go away and the person will seem healthy for a little while. But then they will get sick again. How soon they get sick again, which symptoms they have, and how sick they get depends on the amount of radiation they received. In some cases, ARS causes death in the following days or weeks. Exposure to low levels of radiation in the environment does not cause immediate health effects. But it can slightly increase your overall risk of cancer. What are the treatments for acute radiation sickness? Before they start treatment, health care professionals need to figure out how much radiation your body absorbed. They will ask about your symptoms, do blood tests, and may use a device that measures radiation. They also try get more information about the exposure, such as what type of radiation it was, how far away you were from the source of the radiation, and how long you were exposed. Treatment focuses on reducing and treating infections, preventing dehydration , and treating injuries and burns. Some people may need treatments that help the bone marrow recover its function. If you were exposed to certain types of radiation, your provider may give you a treatment that limits or removes the contamination that is inside your body. You may also get treatments for your symptoms. How can radiation exposure be prevented? There are steps you can take to prevent or reduce radiation exposure: If your health care provider recommends a test that uses radiation, ask about its risks and benefits. In some cases, you may be able to have a different test that does not use radiation. But if you do need a test that uses radiation, do some research into the local imaging facilities. Find one that monitors and uses techniques to reduce the doses they are giving patients. Reduce electromagnetic radiation exposure from your cell phone. At this time, scientific evidence has not found a link between cell phone use and health problems in humans. More research is needed to be sure. But if you still have concerns, you can reduce how much time you spend on your phone. You can also use speaker mode or a headset to place more distance between your head and the cell phone. If you live in a house, test the radon levels, and if you need to, get a radon reduction system. During a radiation emergency, get inside a building to take shelter. Stay inside, with all of the windows and doors shut. Stay tuned to and follow the advice of emergency responders and officials. Environmental Protection Agency"
Radiation Therapy,https://medlineplus.gov/radiationtherapy.html,"Radiation therapy is cancer treatment, using exposure to kill and stop spread. Must be carefully done to minimize side effects and maximize benefits."," Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment. It uses high doses of radiation to kill cancer cells and stop them from spreading. About half of all cancer patients receive it. The radiation may be external, from special machines, or internal, from radioactive substances that a doctor places inside your body. The type of radiation therapy you receive depends on many factors, including The type of cancer The size of the cancer The cancer's location in the body How close the cancer is to normal tissues that are sensitive to radiation How far into the body the radiation needs to travel Your general health and medical history Whether you will have other types of cancer treatment Other factors, such as your age and other medical conditions Radiation therapy can damage normal cells as well as cancer cells. Treatment must be carefully planned to minimize side effects. Common side effects include skin changes and fatigue. Other side effects depend on the part of your body being treated. Sometimes radiation is used with other treatments, like surgery or chemotherapy . NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Radon,https://medlineplus.gov/radon.html,"Radon comes from the natural breakdown of uranium in soil, rock, and water. Second leading cause of lung cancer. Test your home for radon levels."," You can't see radon. And you can't smell it or taste it. But it may be a problem in your home. Radon comes from the natural breakdown of uranium in soil, rock, and water. Radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer in the United States. There are low levels of radon outdoors. Indoors, there can be high levels. Radon can enter homes and buildings through cracks in floors, walls, or foundations. Radon can also be in your water, especially well water. Testing is the only way to know if your home has elevated radon levels. It is inexpensive and easy. You can buy a test kit at most hardware stores or hire someone to do a test. Radon reduction systems can bring the amount of radon down to a safe level. The cost depends on the size and design of your home."
Rare Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/rarediseases.html,"A rare disease is one that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. There are nearly 7,000, affecting more than 25 million Americans."," A rare disease is one that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. There are nearly 7,000 rare diseases. More than 25 million Americans have one. Rare diseases May involve chronic illness, disability, and often premature death Often have no treatment or not very effective treatment Are frequently not diagnosed correctly Are often very complex Are often caused by changes in genes It can be hard to find a specialist who knows how to treat your rare disease. Disease advocacy groups, rare disease organizations, and genetics clinics may help you to find one. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Rashes,https://medlineplus.gov/rashes.html,"A rash, or dermatitis, is an area of irritated or swollen skin. It can be itchy, red, and painful. Learn about the types, causes, and treatments."," A rash is an area of irritated or swollen skin. Many rashes are itchy, red, painful, and irritated. Some rashes can also lead to blisters or patches of raw skin. Rashes are a symptom of many different medical problems. Other causes include irritating substances and allergies. Certain genes can make people more likely to get rashes. Contact dermatitis is a common type of rash. It causes redness, itching, and sometimes small bumps. You get the rash where you have touched an irritant, such as a chemical, or something you are allergic to, like poison ivy . Some rashes develop right away. Others form over several days. Although most rashes clear up fairly quickly, others are long-lasting and need long-term treatment. Because rashes can be caused by many different things, it's important to figure out what kind you have before you treat it. If it is a bad rash, if it does not go away, or if you have other symptoms, you should see your health care provider. Treatments may include moisturizers, lotions, baths, cortisone creams that relieve swelling, and antihistamines, which relieve itching."
Raynaud's Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/raynaudsdisease.html,"Raynaud's disease (or Raynaud's Syndrome) is a rare disorder of the blood vessels, usually in the fingers and toes. Learn more about treatment."," Raynaud's disease is a rare disorder of the blood vessels, usually in the fingers and toes. It causes the blood vessels to narrow when you are cold or feeling stressed. When this happens, blood can't get to the surface of the skin and the affected areas turn white and blue. When the blood flow returns, the skin turns red and throbs or tingles. In severe cases, loss of blood flow can cause sores or tissue death. Primary Raynaud's happens on its own. The cause is unknown. There is also secondary Raynaud's, which is caused by injuries, other diseases, or certain medicines. People in colder climates are more likely to develop Raynaud's. It is also more common in women, people with a family history, and those over age 30. Treatment for Raynaud's may include drugs to keep the blood vessels open. There are also simple things you can do yourself, such as Soaking hands in warm water at the first sign of an attack Keeping your hands and feet warm in cold weather Avoiding triggers, such as certain medicines and stress NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Rectal Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/rectaldisorders.html,"The rectum is the lower part of your large intestine. Common problems include hemorrhoids, abscesses, incontinence and cancer."," The rectum is the lower part of your large intestine where your body stores stool. Problems with rectum are common. They include hemorrhoids , abscesses, incontinence and cancer . Many people are embarrassed to talk about rectal troubles. But seeing your doctor about problems in this area is important. This is especially true if you have pain or bleeding. Treatments vary depending on the particular problem. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Reflux in Children,https://medlineplus.gov/refluxinchildren.html,"Kids can get reflux and GERD, which happen when stomach contents leak back up. Learn the difference between the two, and the symptoms and treatments."," What are reflux (GER) and GERD? The esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. If your child has reflux, his or her stomach contents come back up into the esophagus. Another name for reflux is gastroesophageal reflux (GER). GERD stands for gastroesophageal reflux disease. It is a more serious and long-lasting type of reflux. If your child has reflux more than twice a week for a few weeks, it could be GERD. What causes reflux and GERD in children? There is a muscle (the lower esophageal sphincter) that acts as a valve between the esophagus and stomach. When your child swallows, this muscle relaxes to let food pass from the esophagus to the stomach. This muscle normally stays closed, so the stomach contents don't flow back into the esophagus. In children who have reflux and GERD, this muscle becomes weak or relaxes when it shouldn't, and the stomach contents flow back into the esophagus. This can happen because of A hiatal hernia , a condition in which the upper part of your stomach pushes upward into your chest through an opening in your diaphragm Increased pressure on the abdomen from being overweight or having obesity Medicines, such as certain asthma medicines, antihistamines (which treat allergies), pain relievers , sedatives (which help put people to sleep), and antidepressants Smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke A previous surgery on the esophagus or upper abdomen A severe developmental delay Certain neurological conditions , such as cerebral palsy How common are reflux and GERD in children? Many children have occasional reflux. GERD is not as common; up to 25% of children have symptoms of GERD. What are the symptoms of reflux and GERD in children? Your child might not even notice reflux. But some children taste food or stomach acid at the back of the mouth. In children, GERD can cause Heartburn , a painful, burning feeling in the middle of the chest. It is more common in older children (12 years and up). Bad breath Nausea and vomiting Problems swallowing or painful swallowing Breathing problems The wearing away of teeth How do doctors diagnose reflux and GERD in children? In most cases, a doctor diagnoses reflux by reviewing your child's symptoms and medical history. If the symptoms do not get better with lifestyle changes and anti-reflux medicines, your child may need testing to check for GERD or other problems. Several tests can help a doctor diagnose GERD. Sometimes doctors order more than one test to get a diagnosis. Commonly-used tests include Upper GI series , which looks at the shape of your child's upper GI (gastrointestinal) tract. You child will drink a contrast liquid called barium. For young children, the barium is mixed in with a bottle or other food. The health care professional will take several x-rays of your child to track the barium as it goes through the esophagus and stomach. Esophageal pH and impedance monitoring , which measures the amount of acid or liquid in your child's esophagus. A doctor or nurse places a thin flexible tube through your child's nose into the stomach. The end of the tube in the esophagus measures when and how much acid comes back up into the esophagus. The other end of the tube attaches to a monitor that records the measurements. Your child will wear the tube for 24 hours. He or she may need to stay in the hospital during the test. Upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy and biopsy , which uses an endoscope, a long, flexible tube with a light and camera at the end of it. The doctor runs the endoscope down your child's esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine. While looking at the pictures from the endoscope, the doctor may also take tissue samples ( biopsy ). What lifestyle changes can help treat my child's reflux or GERD? Sometimes reflux and GERD in children can be treated with lifestyle changes: Losing weight, if needed Eating smaller meals Avoiding high-fat foods Wearing loose-fitting clothing around the abdomen Staying upright for 3 hours after meals and not reclining and slouching when sitting Sleeping at a slight angle. Raise the head of your child's bed 6 to 8 inches by safely putting blocks under the bedposts. What treatments might the doctor give for my child's GERD? If changes at home do not help enough, the doctor may recommend medicines to treat GERD. The medicines work by lowering the amount of acid in your child's stomach. Some medicines for GERD in children are over-the-counter, and some are prescription medicines. They include Over-the-counter antacids H2 blockers, which decrease acid production Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which lower the amount of acid the stomach makes Prokinetics, which help the stomach empty faster If these don't help and your child still has severe symptoms, then surgery might be an option. A pediatric gastroenterologist, a doctor who treats children who have digestive diseases, would do the surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Reflux in Infants,https://medlineplus.gov/refluxininfants.html,"Many babies spit up, or have reflux, and some have the more serious GERD. Learn the difference between the two, and their symptoms and treatments."," What are reflux (GER) and GERD? The esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. If your baby has reflux, his or her stomach contents come back up into the esophagus. Another name for reflux is gastroesophageal reflux (GER). GERD stands for gastroesophageal reflux disease. It is a more serious and long-lasting type of reflux. Babies may have GERD if their symptoms prevent them from feeding or if the reflux lasts more than 12 to 14 months. What causes reflux and GERD in infants? There is a muscle (the lower esophageal sphincter) that acts as a valve between the esophagus and stomach. When your baby swallows, this muscle relaxes to let food pass from the esophagus to the stomach. This muscle normally stays closed, so the stomach contents don't flow back into the esophagus. In babies who have reflux, the lower esophageal sphincter muscle is not fully developed and lets the stomach contents back up the esophagus. This causes your baby to spit up (regurgitate). Once his or her sphincter muscle fully develops, your baby should no longer spit up. In babies who have GERD, the sphincter muscle becomes weak or relaxes when it shouldn't. How common are reflux and GERD in infants? Reflux is very common in babies. About half all babies spit up many times a day in the first 3 months of their lives. They usually stop spitting up between the ages of 12 and 14 months. GERD is also common in younger infants. Many 4-month-olds have it. But by their first birthday, only 10% of babies still have GERD. What are the symptoms of reflux and GERD in infants? In babies, the main symptom of reflux and GERD is spitting up. GERD may also cause symptoms such as Arching of the back, often during or right after eating Colic - crying that lasts for more than 3 hours a day with no medical cause Coughing Gagging or trouble swallowing Irritability, especially after eating Poor eating or refusing to eat Poor weight gain, or weight loss Wheezing or trouble breathing Forceful or frequent vomiting NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases How do doctors diagnose reflux and GERD in infants? In most cases, a doctor diagnoses reflux by reviewing your baby's symptoms and medical history. If the symptoms do not get better with feeding changes and anti-reflux medicines, your baby may need testing. Several tests can help a doctor diagnose GERD. Sometimes doctors order more than one test to get a diagnosis. Common tests include Upper GI series , which looks at the shape of your baby's upper GI (gastrointestinal) tract. Your baby will drink or eat a contrast liquid called barium. The barium is mixed in with a bottle or other food. The health care professional will take several x-rays of your baby to track the barium as it goes through the esophagus and stomach. Esophageal pH and impedance monitoring , which measures the amount of acid or liquid in your baby's esophagus. A doctor or nurse places a thin flexible tube through your baby's nose into the stomach. The end of the tube in the esophagus measures when and how much acid comes up into the esophagus. The other end of the tube attaches to a monitor that records the measurements. Your baby will wear this for 24 hours, most likely in the hospital. Upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy and biopsy , which uses an endoscope, a long, flexible tube with a light and camera at the end of it. The doctor runs the endoscope down your baby's esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine. While looking at the pictures from the endoscope, the doctor may also take tissue samples ( biopsy ). What feeding changes can help treat my infant's reflux or GERD? Feeding changes may help your baby's reflux and GERD: Add rice cereal to your baby's bottle of formula or breastmilk. Check with the doctor about how much to add. If the mixture is too thick, you can change the nipple size or cut a little ""x"" in the nipple to make the opening larger. Burp your baby after every 1 to 2 ounces of formula. If you breastfeed, burp your baby after nursing from each breast. Avoid overfeeding; give your baby the amount of formula or breast milk recommended. Hold your baby upright for 30 minutes after feedings. If you use formula and your doctor thinks that your baby may be sensitive to milk protein, your doctor may suggest switching to a different type of formula. Do not change formulas without talking to the doctor. What treatments might the doctor give for my infant's GERD? If feeding changes do not help enough, the doctor may recommend medicines to treat GERD. The medicines work by lowering the amount of acid in your baby's stomach. The doctor will only suggest medicine if your baby still has regular GERD symptoms and You already tried some feeding changes Your baby has problems sleeping or feeding Your baby does not grow properly The doctor will often prescribe a medicine on a trial basis and will explain any possible complications. You shouldn't give your baby any medicines unless the doctor tells you to. Medicines for GERD in babies include H2 blockers, which decrease acid production Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which lower the amount of acid the stomach makes If these don't help and your baby still has severe symptoms, then surgery might be an option. Pediatric gastroenterologists only use surgery to treat GERD in babies in rare cases. They may suggest surgery when babies have severe breathing problems or have a physical problem that causes GERD symptoms."
Refractive Errors,https://medlineplus.gov/refractiveerrors.html,"Are you nearsighted, farsighted, or have astigmatism? That's a refractive error, caused by an irregular-shaped cornea or lens. Learn how it's treated."," The cornea and lens of your eye helps you focus. Refractive errors are vision problems that happen when the shape of the eye keeps you from focusing well. The cause could be the length of the eyeball (longer or shorter), changes in the shape of the cornea, or aging of the lens. Four common refractive errors are Myopia, or nearsightedness - clear vision close up but blurry in the distance Hyperopia, or farsightedness - clear vision in the distance but blurry close up Presbyopia - inability to focus close up as a result of aging Astigmatism - focus problems caused by the cornea The most common symptom is blurred vision. Other symptoms may include double vision, haziness, glare or halos around bright lights, squinting, headaches, or eye strain. Glasses or contact lenses can usually correct refractive errors. Laser eye surgery may also be a possibility. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Rehabilitation,https://medlineplus.gov/rehabilitation.html,"Rehabilitation is the process that assists a person in recovering from a serious injury, illness or surgery to regain strength, or relearn skills. "," What is rehabilitation? Rehabilitation is care that can help you get back, keep, or improve abilities that you need for daily life. These abilities may be physical, mental, and/or cognitive (thinking and learning). You may have lost them because of a disease or injury, or as a side effect from a medical treatment. Rehabilitation can improve your daily life and functioning. Who needs rehabilitation? Rehabilitation is for people who have lost abilities that they need for daily life. Some of the most common causes include Injuries and trauma, including burns , fractures (broken bones), traumatic brain injury , and spinal cord injuries Stroke Severe infections Major surgery Side effects from medical treatments, such as from cancer treatments Certain birth defects and genetic disorders Developmental disabilities Chronic pain , including back and neck pain What are the goals of rehabilitation? The overall goal of rehabilitation is to help you get your abilities back and regain independence. But the specific goals are different for each person. They depend on what caused the problem, whether the cause is ongoing or temporary, which abilities you lost, and how severe the problem is. For example, A person who has had a stroke may need rehabilitation to be able to dress or bathe without help An active person who has had a heart attack may go through cardiac rehabilitation to try to return to exercising Someone with a lung disease may get pulmonary rehabilitation to be able to breathe better and improve their quality of life What happens in a rehabilitation program? When you get rehabilitation, you often have a team of different health care providers helping you. They will work with you to figure out your needs, goals, and treatment plan. The types of treatments that may be in a treatment plan include Assistive devices , which are tools, equipment, and products that help people with disabilities move and function Cognitive rehabilitation therapy to help you relearn or improve skills such as thinking, learning, memory, planning, and decision making Mental health counseling Music or art therapy to help you express your feelings, improve your thinking, and develop social connections Nutritional counseling Occupational therapy to help you with your daily activities Physical therapy to help your strength, mobility, and fitness Recreational therapy to improve your emotional well-being through arts and crafts, games, relaxation training, and animal-assisted therapy Speech-language therapy to help with speaking, understanding, reading, writing and swallowing Treatment for pain Vocational rehabilitation to help you build skills for going to school or working at a job Depending on your needs, you may have rehabilitation in the providers' offices, a hospital, or an inpatient rehabilitation center. In some cases, a provider may come to your home. If you get care in your home, you will need to have family members or friends who can come and help with your rehabilitation."
Reproductive Hazards,https://medlineplus.gov/reproductivehazards.html,"Reproductive hazards can affect your reproductive health, fertility, and ability to have healthy children. Learn about the types and prevention."," What are reproductive hazards? Reproductive hazards are substances that affect the reproductive health of men or women. They also include substances that affect the ability of couples to have healthy children. These substances may be chemical, physical, or biological. Some common types include Alcohol Chemicals such as pesticides Smoking Legal and illegal drugs Metals such as lead and mercury Radiation Some viruses You may be exposed to reproductive hazards through contact with your skin, breathing them in, or swallowing them. This can happen anywhere, but it is more common in the workplace or at home. What are the health effects of reproductive hazards? The possible health effects of reproductive hazards include infertility , miscarriage , birth defects , and developmental disabilities in children. What type of health effects they cause and how serious they are depends on many factors, including What the substance is How much of it you are exposed to How it enters your body How long or how often you are exposed How you react to the substance How can reproductive hazards affect men? For a man, a reproductive hazard can affect the sperm. A hazard may cause a problem with the number of sperm, their shape, or the way that they swim. It could also damage the sperm's DNA. Then the sperm may not be able to fertilize an egg. Or it could cause problems with the development of the fetus . How can reproductive hazards affect women? For a woman, a reproductive hazard can disrupt the menstrual cycle . It can cause hormone imbalance, which can raise the risk of diseases such as osteoporosis , heart disease , and certain cancers. It can affect a woman's ability to get pregnant . A woman who is exposed during pregnancy can have different effects, depending on when she was exposed. During the first 3 months of pregnancy, it might cause a birth defect or a miscarriage. During the last 6 months of pregnancy, it could slow the growth of the fetus, affect the development of its brain, or cause preterm labor . How can reproductive hazards be avoided? To try to avoid reproductive hazards, Avoid alcohol and illegal drugs during pregnancy If you smoke, try to quit . And if you are not a smoker, don't start Take precautions if you are using household chemicals or pesticides Use good hygiene , including handwashing If there are hazards at your job , make sure to follow safe work practices and procedures"
Respiratory Failure,https://medlineplus.gov/respiratoryfailure.html,Respiratory failure happens when not enough oxygen passes from your lungs to your blood. Lung diseases can cause respiratory failure. Read more.," What is respiratory failure? Respiratory failure is a condition in which your blood doesn't have enough oxygen or has too much carbon dioxide. Sometimes you can have both problems. When you breathe, your lungs take in oxygen. The oxygen passes into your blood, which carries it to your organs. Your organs, such as your heart and brain, need this oxygen-rich blood to work well. Another part of breathing is removing the carbon dioxide from the blood and breathing it out. Having too much carbon dioxide in your blood can harm your organs. What causes respiratory failure? Conditions that affect your breathing can cause respiratory failure. These conditions may affect the muscles, nerves, bones, or tissues that support breathing. Or they may affect the lungs directly. These conditions include Diseases that affect the lungs , such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), cystic fibrosis , pneumonia , pulmonary embolism , and COVID-19 Conditions that affect the nerves and muscles that control breathing, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), muscular dystrophy , spinal cord injuries , and stroke Problems with the spine, such as scoliosis (a curve in the spine). They can affect the bones and muscles used for breathing. Damage to the tissues and ribs around the lungs. An injury to the chest can cause this damage. Drug or alcohol overdose Inhalation injuries , such as from inhaling smoke (from fires) or harmful fumes What are the symptoms of respiratory failure? The symptoms of respiratory failure depend on the cause and the levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in your blood. A low oxygen level in the blood can cause shortness of breath and air hunger (the feeling that you can't breathe in enough air). Your skin, lips, and fingernails may also have a bluish color. A high carbon dioxide level can cause rapid breathing and confusion. Some people who have respiratory failure may become very sleepy or lose consciousness. They also may have arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat). You may have these symptoms if your brain and heart are not getting enough oxygen. How is respiratory failure diagnosed? Your health care provider will diagnose respiratory failure based on Your medical history A physical exam, which often includes Listening to your lungs to check for abnormal sounds Listening to your heart to check for arrhythmia Looking for a bluish color on your skin, lips, and fingernails Diagnostic tests, such as Pulse oximetry, a small sensor that uses a light to measure how much oxygen is in your blood. The sensor goes on the end of your finger or on your ear. Arterial blood gas test, a test that measures the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in your blood. The blood sample is taken from an artery, usually in your wrist. Once you are diagnosed with respiratory failure, your provider will look for what is causing it. Tests for this often include a chest x-ray. If your provider thinks you may have arrhythmia because of the respiratory failure, you may have an EKG (electrocardiogram). This is simple, painless test that detects and records your heart's electrical activity. What are the treatments for respiratory failure? Treatment for respiratory failure depends on Whether it is acute (short-term) or chronic (ongoing) How severe it is What is causing it Acute respiratory failure can be a medical emergency. You may need treatment in intensive care unit at a hospital. Chronic respiratory failure can often be treated at home. But if your chronic respiratory failure is severe, you might need treatment in a long-term care center. One of the main goals of treatment is to get oxygen to your lungs and other organs and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Another goal is to treat the cause of the condition. Treatments may include Oxygen therapy , through a nasal cannula (two small plastic tubes that go in your nostrils) or through a mask that fits over your nose and mouth Tracheostomy, a surgically-made hole that goes through the front of your neck and into your windpipe. A breathing tube, also called a tracheostomy, or trach tube, is placed in the hole to help you breathe. Ventilator, a breathing machine that blows air into your lungs. It also carries carbon dioxide out of your lungs. Other breathing treatments, such as noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV), which uses mild air pressure to keep your airways open while you sleep. Another treatment is a special bed that rocks back and forth, to help you breathe in and out. Fluids, often through an intravenous (IV), to improve blood flow throughout your body. They also provide nutrition. Medicines for discomfort Treatments for the cause of the respiratory failure. These treatments may include medicines and procedures. If you have respiratory failure, see your health care provider for ongoing medical care. Your provider may suggest pulmonary rehabilitation . If your respiratory failure is chronic, make sure that you know when and where to get help for your symptoms. You need emergency care if you have severe symptoms, such as trouble catching your breath or talking. You should call your provider if you notice that your symptoms are worsening or if you have new signs and symptoms. Living with respiratory failure may cause fear, anxiety , depression , and stress . Talk therapy, medicines, and support groups can help you feel better. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/respiratorysyncytialvirusinfections.html,"Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) causes cold-like symptoms in adults and healthy children, but can cause serious problems in babies. Read more. "," What is respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)? Respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, is a common respiratory virus. It usually causes mild, cold-like symptoms. But it can cause serious lung infections, especially in infants, older adults, and people with serious medical problems. How is respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) spread? RSV spreads from person to person through The air by coughing and sneezing Direct contact, such as kissing the face of a child who has RSV Touching an object or surface with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes before washing your hands People who have an RSV infection are usually contagious for 3 to 8 days. But sometimes infants and people with weakened immune systems can continue to spread the virus for as long as 4 weeks. Who is at risk for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections? RSV can affect people of all ages. But it is very common in small children; nearly all children become infected with RSV by age 2. In the United States, RSV infections usually occur during fall, winter, or spring. Certain people are at higher risk of having a severe RSV infection: Infants Older adults, especially those age 65 and older People with chronic medical conditions such as heart or lung disease People with weakened immune systems What are the symptoms of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections? The symptoms of RSV infection usually start about 4 to 6 days after infection. They include Runny nose Decrease in appetite Cough Sneezing Fever Wheezing These symptoms usually appear in stages instead of all at once. In very young infants, the only symptoms may be irritability, decreased activity, and trouble breathing. RSV can also cause more severe infections, especially in people at high risk. These infections include bronchiolitis, an inflammation of the small airways in the lung, and pneumonia , an infection of the lungs. How are respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, the health care provider Will take a medical history, including asking about symptoms Will do a physical exam May do a lab test of nasal fluid or another respiratory specimen to check for RSV. This is usually done for people with severe infection. May do tests to check for complications in people with severe infection. The tests may include a chest x-ray and blood and urine tests. What are the treatments for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections? There is no specific treatment for RSV infection. Most infections go away on their own in a week or two. Over-the-counter pain relievers can help with the fever and pain. However, do not give aspirin to children. And do not give cough medicine to children under four. It is also important to get enough fluids to prevent dehydration . Some people with severe infection may need to be hospitalized. There, they might get oxygen , a breathing tube, or a ventilator. Can respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections be prevented? There are no vaccines for RSV. But you may able to reduce your risk of getting or spreading an RSV infection by Washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds Avoiding touching your face, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands Avoiding close contact, such as kissing, shaking hands, and sharing cups and eating utensils, with others if you are sick or they are sick Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces that you frequently touch Covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue. Then throw away the tissue and wash your hands Staying home when sick Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Restless Legs,https://medlineplus.gov/restlesslegs.html,"That creeping, crawling, tingling, or burning feeling in your legs when lying down or sitting may be restless leg syndrome (RLS). Learn what can help."," Restless legs syndrome (RLS) causes a powerful urge to move your legs. Your legs become uncomfortable when you are lying down or sitting. Some people describe it as a creeping, crawling, tingling, or burning sensation. Moving makes your legs feel better, but not for long. RLS can make it hard to fall asleep and stay asleep. In most cases, there is no known cause for RLS. In other cases, RLS is caused by a disease or condition, such as anemia or pregnancy. Some medicines can also cause temporary RLS. Caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol may make symptoms worse. Lifestyle changes, such as regular sleep habits, relaxation techniques, and moderate exercise during the day can help. If those don't work, medicines may reduce the symptoms of RLS. Most people with RLS also have a condition called periodic limb movement disorder (PLMD). PLMD is a condition in which a person's legs twitch or jerk uncontrollably, usually during sleep. PLMD and RLS can also affect the arms. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Retinal Detachment,https://medlineplus.gov/retinaldetachment.html,The retina is in the back of your eye. It senses light and sends images to your brain. A detachment (pulling away) is an emergency. Know the symptoms.," The retina is a layer of tissue in the back of your eye that senses light and sends images to your brain. It provides the sharp, central vision needed for reading, driving, and seeing fine detail. A retinal detachment lifts or pulls the retina from its normal position. It can occur at any age, but it is more common in people over age 40. It affects men more than women and whites more than African Americans. A retinal detachment is also more likely to occur in people who Are extremely nearsighted Have had a retinal detachment in the other eye Have a family history of retinal detachment Have had cataract surgery Have other eye diseases or disorders Have had an eye injury Symptoms include an increase in the number of floaters, which are little ""cobwebs"" or specks that float about in your field of vision, and/or light flashes in the eye. It may also seem like there is a ""curtain"" over your field of vision. A retinal detachment is a medical emergency. If not promptly treated, it can cause permanent vision loss. If you have any symptoms, see an eye care professional immediately. Treatment includes different types of surgery. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Retinal Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/retinaldisorders.html,The retina is a layer of tissue in the back of your eye. It senses light and sends images to your brain. Learn about retinal disorders and treatments.," The retina is a layer of tissue in the back of your eye that senses light and sends images to your brain. In the center of this nerve tissue is the macula. It provides the sharp, central vision needed for reading, driving and seeing fine detail. Retinal disorders affect this vital tissue. They can affect your vision, and some can be serious enough to cause blindness . Examples are Macular degeneration - a disease that destroys your sharp, central vision Diabetic eye disease Retinal detachment - a medical emergency, when the retina is pulled away from the back of the eye Retinoblastoma - cancer of the retina. It is most common in young children. Macular pucker - scar tissue on the macula Macular hole - a small break in the macula that usually happens to people over 60 Floaters - cobwebs or specks in your field of vision NIH: National Eye Institute"
Rett Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/rettsyndrome.html,"Rett syndrome is a rare genetic disease. It causes developmental and nervous system problems, mostly in girls. Learn about symptoms and treatments."," Rett syndrome is a rare genetic disease that causes developmental and nervous system problems, mostly in girls. It's related to autism spectrum disorder . Babies with Rett syndrome seem to grow and develop normally at first. Between 3 months and 3 years of age, though, they stop developing and even lose some skills. Symptoms include Loss of speech Loss of hand movements such as grasping Compulsive movements such as hand wringing Balance problems Breathing problems Behavior problems Learning problems or intellectual disability Rett syndrome has no cure. You can treat some of the symptoms with medicines, surgery, and physical and speech therapy. Most people with Rett syndrome live into middle age and beyond. They will usually need care throughout their lives. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Reye Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/reyesyndrome.html,"Learn about Reye syndrome, which affects the liver, brain, and other organs. It is rare, and is often in children who have just had a viral infection."," Reye syndrome is a rare illness that can affect the blood, liver, and brain of someone who has recently had a viral infection. It always follows another illness. Although it mostly affects children and teens, anyone can get it. It can develop quickly and without warning. It is most common during flu season. Symptoms include Nausea and vomiting Listlessness Personality change - such as irritability, combativeness or confusion Delirium Convulsions Loss of consciousness If these symptoms occur soon after a viral illness, seek medical attention immediately. Reye syndrome can lead to a coma and brain death, so quick diagnosis and treatment are critical. Treatment focuses on preventing brain damage. There is no cure. The cause of Reye syndrome is unknown. Studies have shown that taking aspirin increases the risk of getting it. Because of that, health care professionals now recommend other pain relievers for young patients. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Rh Incompatibility,https://medlineplus.gov/rhincompatibility.html,Rh incompatibility happens during pregnancy if mom's blood is Rh-negative and the baby's is Rh-positive. Learn about screening and treatment.," There are four major blood types: A, B, O, and AB. The types are based on substances on the surface of the blood cells. Another blood type is called Rh. Rh factor is a protein on red blood cells. Most people are Rh-positive; they have Rh factor. Rh-negative people don't have it. Rh factor is inherited through genes. When you're pregnant , blood from your baby can cross into your bloodstream, especially during delivery. If you're Rh-negative and your baby is Rh-positive, your body will react to the baby's blood as a foreign substance. It will create antibodies (proteins) against the baby's blood. These antibodies usually don't cause problems during a first pregnancy. But Rh incompatibility may cause problems in later pregnancies, if the baby is Rh-positive. This is because the antibodies stay in your body once they have formed. The antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the baby's red blood cells. The baby could get Rh disease, a serious condition that can cause a serious type of anemia. Blood tests can tell whether you have Rh factor and whether your body has made antibodies. Injections of a medicine called Rh immune globulin can keep your body from making Rh antibodies. It helps prevent the problems of Rh incompatibility. If treatment is needed for the baby, it can include supplements to help the body to make red blood cells and blood transfusions . NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Rheumatoid Arthritis,https://medlineplus.gov/rheumatoidarthritis.html,"Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) causes pain, swelling and loss of joint function. Treatments include medicine, lifestyle changes, and surgery. Learn more. "," Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a form of arthritis that causes pain, swelling, stiffness and loss of function in your joints. It can affect any joint but is common in the wrist and fingers. More women than men get rheumatoid arthritis. It often starts in middle age and is most common in older people. You might have the disease for only a short time, or symptoms might come and go. The severe form can last a lifetime. Rheumatoid arthritis is different from osteoarthritis , the common arthritis that often comes with older age. RA can affect body parts besides joints, such as your eyes, mouth and lungs. RA is an autoimmune disease , which means the arthritis results from your immune system attacking your body's own tissues. No one knows what causes rheumatoid arthritis. Genes, environment, and hormones might contribute. Treatments include medicine, lifestyle changes, and surgery. These can slow or stop joint damage and reduce pain and swelling. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Rickets,https://medlineplus.gov/rickets.html,"Rickets causes soft, weak bones in children. It usually occurs when they do not get enough vitamin D. Read about symptoms and treatment."," Rickets causes soft, weak bones in children. It usually occurs when they do not get enough vitamin D , which helps growing bones absorb the minerals calcium and phosphorous. It can also happen when calcium or phosphorus levels are too low. Your child might not get enough vitamin D if he or she Has dark skin Spends too little time outside Has on sunscreen all the time when out of doors Doesn't eat foods containing vitamin D because of lactose intolerance or a strict vegetarian diet Is breastfed without receiving vitamin D supplements Can't make or use vitamin D because of a medical disorder such as celiac disease In addition to dietary rickets, children can get an inherited form of the disease. Symptoms include bone pain or tenderness, impaired growth, and deformities of the bones and teeth. Your child's doctor uses lab and imaging tests to make the diagnosis. Treatment is replacing the calcium, phosphorus, or vitamin D that are lacking in the diet. Rickets is rare in the United States."
Rosacea,https://medlineplus.gov/rosacea.html,Rosacea can range from redness in the face to acne and thickened skin and inflammation that may extend into the eyes. Learn what treatments can help.," Rosacea is a long-term disease that affects your skin and sometimes your eyes. It causes redness and pimples. Rosacea is most common in women and people with fair skin. It most often affects middle-aged and older adults. In most cases, rosacea only affects the face. Symptoms can include Frequent redness of the face, or flushing Small, red lines under the skin Acne A swollen nose Thick skin, usually on the forehead, chin, and cheeks Red, dry, itchy eyes and sometimes vision problems No one knows what causes rosacea. You may be more likely to have it if you blush a lot or if rosacea runs in your family. Rosacea is not dangerous. There is no cure, but treatments can help. They include medicines and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Rotator Cuff Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/rotatorcuffinjuries.html,"The rotator cuff is made up of muscles and tendons in your shoulder area. Tendinitis, bursitis, and tears are common problems with the rotator cuff."," Your rotator cuff is located in your shoulder area. It is made of muscles and tendons. It helps your shoulder to move and stay stable. Problems with the rotator cuff are common. They include tendinitis , bursitis , and injuries such as tears. Rotator cuff tendons can become inflamed from frequent use or aging. Sometimes they are injured from a fall on an outstretched hand. Sports or jobs with repeated overhead motion can also damage the rotator cuff. Aging causes tendons to wear down, which can lead to a tear. Some tears are not painful, but others can be very painful. Treatment for a torn rotator cuff depends on age, health, how severe the injury is, and how long you've had the torn rotator cuff. Treatment for torn rotator cuff includes: Rest Heat or cold to the sore area Medicines that reduce pain and swelling Electrical stimulation of muscles and nerves Ultrasound Cortisone injection Surgery NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disease"
Rotavirus Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/rotavirusinfections.html,"Rotavirus is a virus that causes symptoms of severe diarrhea, vomiting, fever, and dehydration.  It is easily spread; but vaccines are available."," Rotavirus is a virus that causes gastroenteritis . Symptoms include severe diarrhea , vomiting, fever, and dehydration. Almost all children in the U.S. are likely to be infected with rotavirus before their 5th birthday. Infections happen most often in the winter and spring. It is very easy for children with the virus to spread it to other children and sometimes to adults. Once a child gets the virus, it takes about two days to become sick. Vomiting and diarrhea may last from three to eight days. There is no medicine to treat it. To prevent dehydration, have your child drink plenty of liquids. Your health care provider may recommend oral rehydration drinks. Some children need to go to the hospital for IV fluids. Two vaccines against rotavirus infections are available. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Rubella,https://medlineplus.gov/rubella.html,"Rubella (German measles) is a viral infection. It's usually mild, but can be dangerous for an unborn baby if the mother gets it. Read about prevention"," Rubella is an infection caused by a virus. It is usually mild with fever and a rash. About half of the people who get rubella do not have symptoms. If you do get them, symptoms may include A rash that starts on the face and spreads to the body Mild fever Aching joints, especially in young women Swollen glands Rubella is most dangerous for a pregnant woman's baby. It can cause miscarriage or birth defects. Rubella spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes. People without symptoms can still spread it. There is no treatment, but the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine can prevent it. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Rural Health Concerns,https://medlineplus.gov/ruralhealthconcerns.html,"People in rural, remote areas can face different health issues than people living in towns and cities, such as even being able to get health care."," Around 15% of people in the United States live in rural areas. There are many different reasons why you might choose to live in a rural community. You may want a lower cost of living and a slower pace of life. You may enjoy having access to big, open spaces for recreation. Rural areas are less crowded and can offer more privacy. You may choose a rural area so that you can live near your family and friends. But there are also challenges to living in a rural area, including when it comes to taking care of your health. Compared to urban areas, rural communities tend to have: Higher poverty rates A higher percentage of older adults, who are more likely to have chronic health problems More residents without health insurance Less access to health care. For example, clinics and hospitals may be far away. Higher rates of certain substance use, such as cigarette smoking and opioid and methamphetamine misuse Higher rates of chronic health problems such as high blood pressure and obesity More exposure to environmental hazards, such as chemicals used for farming There are solutions to deal with these problems. A few examples include Clinics offering telehealth to provide care for people who live far away from specialists or can't easily get to their providers' offices Local public health agencies working with their communities to promote healthy living. They can provide wellness and exercise classes and start a farmer's market. Local governments adding bike lanes and trails to encourage people to bike and walk Rural schools can offer counseling and mental health services for their students"
Safe Opioid Use,https://medlineplus.gov/safeopioiduse.html,"Opioids are strong pain relievers. There are risks to taking them, including side effects, dependence, addiction, and overdose. Learn what you can do to take opioids safely and lower these risks."," What are opioids? Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong prescription pain relievers , such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe them for chronic pain . Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, people who take opioids are at risk for opioid dependence, addiction , and overdose . These risks increase when opioids are misused. Misuse means you are not taking the medicines according to your provider's instructions, you are using them to get high, or you are taking someone else's opioids. How do I know if I need to take opioid medicines? First, you need to talk with your health care provider about whether you need to take opioids. You should discuss Whether there are other medicines or therapies that might treat your pain The risks and benefits of taking opioids Your medical history and if you or anyone in your family has a history of substance misuse or addiction to drugs or alcohol Any other medicines and supplements you are taking How much alcohol you drink For women - If you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant What do I need to know if I am going to take opioid medicines? If you and your provider decide that you need to take opioids, make sure that you understand How to take the medicine - how much and how often How long you will need to take the medicine What the possible side effects are How you should stop the medicines when you no longer need them. If you have been taking opioids for a while, it can be dangerous to just stop suddenly. You may need to get off the medicines slowly. What the warning signs of addiction are, so you can watch for them. They include Regularly taking more medicine than you are supposed to Taking someone else's opioids Taking the medicine to get high Mood swings, depression, and/or anxiety Needing too much or too little sleep Trouble making decisions Feeling high or sedated If you have a high risk for an overdose, you may also want to get a prescription for naloxone. Naloxone is a drug that can reverse the effects of an opioid overdose. How can I take my opioid medicine safely? You should always be careful when taking any medicine, but you need to take extra care when taking opioids: Take your medicine exactly as prescribed - do not take extra doses Check the instructions every time you take a dose Do not break, chew, crush, or dissolve opioid pills Opioids can cause drowsiness. Do not drive or use any machinery that may injure you, especially when you first start the medicine. Contact your provider if you have side effects If you can, use the same pharmacy for all your medicines. The pharmacy's computer system will alert the pharmacist if you are taking two or more medicines that could cause a dangerous interaction. How can I safely store and dispose opioid medicines? It is important to store and dispose of opioid medicines properly: Store your opioids and other medicines in a safe place. If you have children at home, it's a good idea to store your medicines in a lockbox. Even one accidental dose of an opioid pain medicine meant for an adult can cause a fatal overdose in a child. Also, someone who lives with you or visits your house may look for and steal your opioid medicines to take or sell them. If you travel, carry the current bottle of opioids with you for safety. This will help you answer any questions about your medicine. Dispose of your unused medicine properly. If you have unused opioid medicines at the end of your treatment, you can get rid of them by Finding a local drug take-back program Finding a pharmacy mail-back program In some cases, flushing them down the toilet - check the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) web site to find out which ones you can flush away Never sell or share your medicines. Your prescription is for you. Your health care provider considers many factors when prescribing opioids. What's safe for you might lead to an overdose for someone else. If someone steals your opioid medicines or prescription, report the theft to the police."
Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/safety.html,"You cannot remove all the safety hazards from life, but you can reduce them. Learn how to avoid many major hazards and prepare for emergencies."," You can't remove all the safety hazards from your life, but you can reduce them. To avoid many major hazards and prepare for emergencies Keep emergency phone numbers by your telephones Make a first aid kit for your home Make a family emergency plan Install and maintain smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors Keep guns unloaded and locked up. Lock up the ammunition separately. Follow the directions carefully when using tools or equipment Young children are especially at risk. Supervision is the best way to keep them safe. Childproofing the house can also help."
Salivary Gland Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/salivaryglandcancer.html,Salivary glands empty saliva into your mouth. Salivary gland cancer is a rare type of head and neck cancer. Learn about the associated symptoms.," Your salivary glands make saliva - sometimes called spit - and empty it into your mouth through openings called ducts. Saliva makes your food moist, which helps you chew and swallow. It helps you digest your food. It also cleans your mouth and contains antibodies that can kill germs. Salivary gland cancer is a type of head and neck cancer . It is rare. It may not cause any symptoms, or you could notice A lump in your ear, cheek, jaw, lip, or inside the mouth Fluid draining from your ear Trouble swallowing or opening the mouth widely Numbness, weakness, or pain in your face Doctors diagnose salivary gland cancer using a physical exam, imaging tests, and a biopsy. Treatment can include surgery, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Salivary Gland Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/salivaryglanddisorders.html,Salivary gland disorders may affect your ability to make saliva. Read about some of the causes of irritated and swollen glands such as mumps.," Your salivary glands are in your mouth. You have three pairs of major salivary glands and hundreds of small (minor) glands. They make saliva (spit) and empty it into your mouth through openings called ducts. Saliva makes your food moist, which helps you chew and swallow. It helps you digest your food. It also cleans your mouth and contains antibodies that can kill germs. Problems with salivary glands can cause them to become irritated and swollen. You may have symptoms such as A bad taste in your mouth Difficulty opening your mouth Dry mouth Pain in your face or mouth Swelling of your face or neck Causes of salivary gland problems include infections, obstruction, or cancer . Problems can also be due to other disorders, such as mumps or Sjogren's syndrome ."
Salmonella Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/salmonellainfections.html,"Salmonella is a group of bacteria that is a common cause of foodborne illness. Learn the symptoms. Know when to, and who should see a doctor."," Salmonella is the name of a group of bacteria. In the United States, it is a common cause of foodborne illness . Salmonella occurs in raw poultry, eggs, beef, and sometimes on unwashed fruit and vegetables. You also can get infected after handling pets, especially reptiles like snakes, turtles, and lizards. Symptoms include Fever Diarrhea Abdominal cramps Headache Possible nausea, vomiting , and loss of appetite Symptoms usually last 4-7 days. Your health care provider diagnoses the infection with a stool test. Most people get better without treatment. Infection can be more serious in older adults, infants, and people with chronic health problems. If Salmonella gets into the bloodstream, it can be serious. The usual treatment is antibiotics. Typhoid fever, a more serious disease caused by Salmonella, is not common in the United States. It frequently occurs in developing countries. NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
Sarcoidosis,https://medlineplus.gov/sarcoidosis.html,"Sarcoidosis is a disease that leads to inflammation, usually in lungs, skin, or lymph nodes. It starts as granulomas. Discover symptoms and tests."," Sarcoidosis is a disease that leads to inflammation, usually in your lungs, skin, or lymph nodes. It starts as tiny, grain-like lumps, called granulomas. Sarcoidosis can affect any organ in your body. No one is sure what causes sarcoidosis. It affects men and women of all ages and races. It occurs mostly in people ages 20 to 50, African Americans, especially women, and people of Northern European origin. Many people have no symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include Cough Shortness of breath Weight loss Night sweats Fatigue Tests to diagnose sarcoidosis include chest x-rays, lung function tests, and a biopsy. Not everyone who has the disease needs treatment. If you do, prednisone, a type of steroid , is the main treatment. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Scabies,https://medlineplus.gov/scabies.html,"Scabies is an itchy skin condition caused by the microscopic mite Sarcoptes scabei. Common all over the world and can affect anyone, learn treatments."," Scabies is an itchy skin condition caused by the microscopic mite Sarcoptes scabei. It is common all over the world, and can affect anyone. Scabies spreads quickly in crowded conditions where there is frequent skin-to-skin contact between people. Hospitals, child-care centers, and nursing homes are examples. Scabies can easily infect sex partners and other household members. Sharing clothes, towels, and bedding can sometimes spread scabies. This can happen much more easily when the infested person has crusted scabies. You cannot get scabies from a pet. Pets get a different mite infection called mange. Symptoms are Pimple-like irritations or a rash Intense itching, especially at night Sores caused by scratching Your health care provider diagnoses scabies by looking at the skin rash and finding burrows in the skin. Several lotions are available to treat scabies. The infected person's clothes, bedding and towels should be washed in hot water and dried in a hot dryer. Treatment is also recommended for household members and sexual partners. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Scars,https://medlineplus.gov/scars.html,"A scar is a permanent patch of skin that grows over a wound. It forms as your body heals itself. Learn about types, including keloids, and treatments."," A scar is a permanent patch of skin that grows over a wound . It forms when your body heals itself after a cut, scrape, burn, or sore. You can also get scars from surgery that cuts through the skin, infections like chickenpox, or skin conditions like acne . Scars are often thicker, as well as pinker, redder, or shinier, than the rest of your skin. How your scar looks depends on How big and deep your wound is Where it is How long it takes to heal Your age Your inherited tendency to scar Scars usually fade over time but never go away completely. If the way a scar looks bothers you, various treatments might minimize it. These include surgical revision, dermabrasion, laser treatments, injections, chemical peels, and creams."
Schizophrenia,https://medlineplus.gov/schizophrenia.html,Schizophrenia is a serious brain illness that can include hearing voices that aren't there and  thinking others are trying to hurt them.," Schizophrenia is a serious brain illness. People who have it may hear voices that aren't there. They may think other people are trying to hurt them. Sometimes they don't make sense when they talk. The disorder makes it hard for them to keep a job or take care of themselves. Symptoms of schizophrenia usually start between ages 16 and 30. Men often develop symptoms at a younger age than women. People usually do not get schizophrenia after age 45. There are three types of symptoms: Psychotic symptoms distort a person's thinking. These include hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that are not there), delusions (beliefs that are not true), trouble organizing thoughts, and strange movements. ""Negative"" symptoms make it difficult to show emotions and to function normally. A person may seem depressed and withdrawn. Cognitive symptoms affect the thought process. These include trouble using information, making decisions, and paying attention. No one is sure what causes schizophrenia. Your genes, environment, and brain chemistry may play a role. There is no cure. Medicine can help control many of the symptoms. You may need to try different medicines to see which works best. You should stay on your medicine for as long as your doctor recommends. Additional treatments can help you deal with your illness from day to day. These include therapy, family education, rehabilitation, and skills training. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
School Health,https://medlineplus.gov/schoolhealth.html,Your child spends more time at school than anywhere else except home. Schools affect children's health from learning healthy behaviors to exercise. ," Your child spends more time at school than anywhere else except home. Schools can have a major effect on children's health. Schools can teach children about health, and promote healthy behaviors. Physical education classes give children a chance to get exercise. Schools work to Prevent risky behaviors such as alcohol and tobacco use or bullying and cyberbullying Encourage healthy habits like exercise and healthy eating Deal with specific health problems in students, such as asthma , obesity and infectious diseases The school building and environment should be a safe and healthy place for your child."
Sciatica,https://medlineplus.gov/sciatica.html,"Sciatica is a symptom of a problem with the sciatic nerve causing pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling. Read about causes, tests, and treatment."," Sciatica is a symptom of a problem with the sciatic nerve, the largest nerve in the body. It controls muscles in the back of your knee and lower leg and provides feeling to the back of your thigh, part of your lower leg, and the sole of your foot. When you have sciatica, you have pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling. It can start in the lower back and extend down your leg to your calf, foot, or even your toes. It's usually on only one side of your body. Causes of sciatica include A ruptured intervertebral disk Narrowing of the spinal canal that puts pressure on the nerve, called spinal stenosis An injury such as a pelvic fracture. In many cases no cause can be found. Sometimes sciatica goes away on its own. Treatment, if needed, depends on the cause of the problem. It may include exercises, medicines, and surgery."
Scleroderma,https://medlineplus.gov/scleroderma.html,"Scleroderma is a group of diseases that cause abnormal growth of connective tissue (such as morphea, systemic sclerosis, CREST syndrome). Learn more."," Scleroderma means hard skin. It is a group of diseases that cause abnormal growth of connective tissue. Connective tissue is the material inside your body that gives your tissues their shape and helps keep them strong. In scleroderma, the tissue gets hard or thick. It can cause swelling or pain in your muscles and joints. Symptoms of scleroderma include Calcium deposits in connective tissues Raynaud's phenomenon , a narrowing of blood vessels in the hands or feet Swelling of the esophagus, the tube between your throat and stomach Thick, tight skin on your fingers Red spots on your hands and face No one knows what causes scleroderma. It is more common in women. It can be mild or severe. Doctors diagnose scleroderma using your medical history, a physical exam, lab tests, and a skin biopsy. There is no cure, but various treatments can control symptoms and complications. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Scoliosis,https://medlineplus.gov/scoliosis.html,"Scoliosis causes a sideways curve of your backbone, or spine. It is most common in late childhood and early teens. Find out more."," Scoliosis causes a sideways curve of your backbone, or spine. These curves are often S- or C-shaped. Scoliosis is most common in late childhood and the early teens, when children grow fast. Girls are more likely to have it than boys. It can run in families. Symptoms include leaning to one side and having uneven shoulders and hips. Sometimes it is easy to notice, but not always. Children may get screening for scoliosis at school or during a checkup . If it looks like there is a problem, your doctor will use your medical and family history, a physical exam, and imaging tests to make a diagnosis. Treatment depends on your age, how much more you're likely to grow, how much curving there is, and whether the curve is temporary or permanent. People with mild scoliosis might only need checkups to see if the curve is getting worse. Others might need to wear a brace or have surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Seasonal Affective Disorder,https://medlineplus.gov/seasonalaffectivedisorder.html,"Seasonal affective disorder or SAD is a type of depression experienced by some people during the winter months, when there is less natural sunlight."," Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a type of depression that comes and goes with the seasons. It usually starts in the late fall and early winter and goes away during the spring and summer. Some people do have episodes of depression that start in the spring or summer, but that is a lot less common. Symptoms of SAD may include Sadness Gloomy outlook Feeling hopeless, worthless, and irritable Loss of interest or pleasure in activities you used to enjoy Low energy Difficulty sleeping or oversleeping Carbohydrate cravings and weight gain Thoughts of death or suicide SAD is more common in women, young people, and those who live far from the equator. You are also more likely to have SAD if you or your family members have depression. The exact causes of SAD are unknown. Researchers have found that people with SAD may have an imbalance of serotonin, a brain chemical that affects your mood. Their bodies also make too much melatonin, a hormone that regulates sleep, and not enough vitamin D. The main treatment for SAD is light therapy. The idea behind light therapy is to replace the sunshine that you miss during the fall and winter months. You sit in front of a light therapy box every morning to get daily exposure to bright, artificial light. But some people with SAD do not respond to light therapy alone. Antidepressant medicines and talk therapy can reduce SAD symptoms, either alone or combined with light therapy. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Secondhand Smoke,https://medlineplus.gov/secondhandsmoke.html,"Secondhand smoke is smoke that comes from the burning end of a cigarette, cigar, or pipe, and the smoke breathed out by the smoker affecting others. "," Secondhand smoke is a mixture of the smoke that comes from the burning end of a cigarette, cigar, or pipe, and the smoke breathed out by the smoker. It contains more than 7,000 chemicals. Hundreds of those chemicals are toxic and about 70 can cause cancer. Health effects of secondhand smoke include Ear infections in children More frequent and severe asthma attacks in children Heart disease and lung cancer in adults who have never smoked There is no safe amount of secondhand smoke. Even low levels of it can be harmful. The only way to fully protect nonsmokers from secondhand smoke is not to allow smoking indoors. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Seizures,https://medlineplus.gov/seizures.html,"Seizures are caused by sudden, abnormal electrical activity in the brain. They can be mild or severe. Learn about the types, causes, and treatments."," Seizures are symptoms of a brain problem. They happen because of sudden, abnormal electrical activity in the brain. When people think of seizures, they often think of convulsions in which a person's body shakes rapidly and uncontrollably. Not all seizures cause convulsions. There are many types of seizures and some have mild symptoms. Seizures fall into two main groups. Focal seizures, also called partial seizures, happen in just one part of the brain. Generalized seizures are a result of abnormal activity on both sides of the brain. Most seizures last from 30 seconds to 2 minutes and do not cause lasting harm. However, it is a medical emergency if seizures last longer than 5 minutes or if a person has many seizures and does not wake up between them. Seizures can have many causes, including medicines, high fevers, head injuries and certain diseases. People who have recurring seizures due to a brain disorder have epilepsy . NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Self-Harm,https://medlineplus.gov/selfharm.html,Self-harm refers to a person harming themselves on purpose. About 1 in 100 people experience this. Learn ways to find relief and cope with emotions.," What is self-harm? Self-harm, or self-injury, is when a person hurts his or her own body on purpose. The injuries may be minor, but sometimes they can be severe. They may leave permanent scars or cause serious health problems. Some examples are Cutting yourself (such as using a razor blade, knife, or other sharp object to cut your skin) Punching yourself or punching things (like a wall) Burning yourself with cigarettes, matches, or candles Pulling out your hair Poking objects through body openings Breaking your bones or bruising yourself Self-harm is not a mental disorder. It is a behavior - an unhealthy way to cope with strong feelings. However, some of the people who harm themselves do have a mental disorder . People who harm themselves are usually not trying to kill themselves . But they are at higher risk of attempting suicide if they do not get help. Why do people harm themselves? There are different reasons why people harm themselves. Often, they have trouble coping and dealing with their feelings. They harm themselves to try to Make themselves feel something, when they feel empty or numb inside Block upsetting memories Show that they need help Release strong feelings that overwhelm them, such as anger, loneliness, or hopelessness Punish themselves Feel a sense of control Who is at risk for self-harm? There are people of all ages who harm themselves, but it usually starts in the teen or early adult years. Self-harm is more common in people who Were abused or went through a trauma as children Have mental disorders, such as Depression Eating disorders Post-traumatic stress disorder Certain personality disorders Misuse drugs or alcohol Have friends who self-harm Have low self-esteem What are the signs of self-harm? Signs that someone may be hurting themselves include Having frequent cuts, bruises, or scars Wearing long sleeves or pants even in hot weather Making excuses about injuries Having sharp objects around for no clear reason How can I help someone who self-harms? If someone you know is self-harming, it is important not to be judgmental. Let that person know that you want to help. If the person is a child or teenager, ask him or her to talk to a trusted adult. If he or she won't do that, talk to a trusted adult yourself. If the person who is self-harming is an adult, suggest mental health counseling. What the treatments are for self-harm? There are no medicines to treat self-harming behaviors. But there are medicines to treat any mental disorders that the person may have, such as anxiety and depression. Treating the mental disorder may weaken the urge to self-harm. Mental health counseling or therapy can also help by teaching the person Problem-solving skills New ways to cope with strong emotions Better relationship skills Ways to strengthen self-esteem If the problem is severe, the person may need more intensive treatment in a psychiatric hospital or a mental health day program."
Sepsis,https://medlineplus.gov/sepsis.html,"Sepsis is a serious illness and can lead to a life threatening condition called septic shock. Read about symptoms, treatment and risk factors for sepsis."," What is sepsis? Sepsis is your body's overactive and extreme response to an infection . Sepsis is a life-threatening medical emergency. Without quick treatment, it can lead to tissue damage, organ failure, and even death. What causes sepsis? Sepsis happens when an infection you already have triggers a chain reaction throughout your body. Bacterial infections are the most common cause, but other types of infections can also cause it. The infections are often in the lungs, stomach, kidneys, or bladder. It's possible for sepsis to begin with a small cut that gets infected or with an infection that develops after surgery. Sometimes, sepsis can occur in people who didn't even know that they had an infection. Who is at risk for sepsis? Anyone with an infection could get sepsis. But certain people are at higher risk: Adults 65 or older People with chronic conditions, such as diabetes , lung disease , cancer , and kidney disease People with weakened immune systems Pregnant women Children younger than one What are the symptoms of sepsis? Sepsis can cause one or more of these symptoms: Rapid breathing and heart rate Shortness of breath Confusion or disorientation Extreme pain or discomfort Fever , shivering, or feeling very cold Clammy or sweaty skin It's important to get medical care right away if you think you might have sepsis or if your infection is not getting better or is getting worse. What other problems can sepsis cause? Severe cases of sepsis can lead to septic shock, where your blood pressure drops to a dangerous level and multiple organs can fail. How is sepsis diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your medical history and symptoms Will do a physical exam, including checking vital signs (your temperature, blood pressure, heart rate, and breathing) Will likely do lab tests that check for signs of infection or organ damage May need to do imaging tests such as an x-ray or a CT scan to find the location of the infection Many of the signs and symptoms of sepsis can also be caused by other medical conditions. This may make sepsis hard to diagnose in its early stages. What are the treatments for sepsis? It is very important to get treatment right away. Treatment usually includes Antibiotics Maintaining blood flow to organs. This may involve getting oxygen and intravenous (IV) fluids. Treating the source of the infection If needed, medicines to increase blood pressure In serious cases, you might need kidney dialysis or a breathing tube. Some people need surgery to remove tissue damaged by the infection. Can sepsis be prevented? To prevent sepsis, you should try to prevent getting an infection: Take good care of any chronic health conditions that you have Get recommended vaccines Practice good hygiene , such as handwashing Keep cuts clean and covered until healed NIH: National Institute of General Medical SciencesCenters for Disease Control and Prevention"
Sexual Assault,https://medlineplus.gov/sexualassault.html,"Any sexual activity to which you haven't freely given consent is sexual assault, including completed or attempted sex acts. Learn what you can do."," Sexual assault is any sexual activity to which you haven't freely given your consent. This includes completed or attempted sex acts that are against your will. Sometimes it can involve a victim who is unable to consent. It also includes abusive sexual contact. It can happen to men, women or children . The attacker can be anyone - a current or former partner, a family member, a person in position of power or trust, a friend, an acquaintance, or a stranger. Sexual assault can affect your health in many ways. It can lead to long-term health and emotional problems. It is important to seek help if you have been assaulted. First, get to a safe place. Then dial 9-1-1 or go to a hospital for medical care. You may want to have counseling to deal with your feelings. The most important thing to know is that the assault was not your fault. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Sexual Health,https://medlineplus.gov/sexualhealth.html,"Sexuality is part of life. Learn about what leads to better sexual health, as well as the problems that can affect your ability to have or enjoy sex."," Sexuality is a big part of being human. Love, affection and sexual intimacy all play a role in healthy relationships. They also contribute to your sense of well-being. A number of disorders can affect the ability to have or enjoy sex in both men and women . Factors that can affect sexual health include Fear of unplanned pregnancy Concerns about infertility Sexually transmitted diseases Chronic diseases such as cancer or heart disease Medicines that affect sexual desire or performance"
Sexual Problems in Men,https://medlineplus.gov/sexualproblemsinmen.html,"Learn about the causes of sexual problems in men and how to treat them. Causes may be physical, hormonal, psychological, or due to medicines."," Many men have sexual problems. They become more common as men age. Problems can include Erectile dysfunction Reduced or lost interest in sex Problems with ejaculation Low testosterone Stress, illness, medicines, or emotional problems may also be factors. Occasional problems with sexual function are common. If problems last more than a few months or cause distress for you or your partner, you should see your health care provider."
Sexual Problems in Women,https://medlineplus.gov/sexualproblemsinwomen.html,"Learn about the causes of sexual problems in women and how to treat them. Causes may be physical, hormonal, psychological, or due to medicines."," There are many problems that can keep a woman from enjoying sex. They include Lack of sexual desire Inability to become aroused Lack of orgasm, or sexual climax Painful intercourse These problems may have physical or psychological causes. Physical causes may include conditions like diabetes, heart disease, nerve disorders, or hormone problems. Some drugs can also affect desire and function. Psychological causes may include work-related stress and anxiety. They may also include depression or concerns about marriage or relationship problems. For some women, the problem results from past sexual trauma. Occasional problems with sexual function are common. If problems last more than a few months or cause distress for you or your partner, you should see your health care provider."
Sexually Transmitted Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/sexuallytransmitteddiseases.html,"Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are infections you can get from having sex with someone infected. Learn about prevention, testing, and treatment."," What are sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)? Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), or sexually transmitted infections (STIs), are infections that are passed from one person to another through sexual contact. The contact is usually vaginal, oral, and anal sex. But sometimes they can spread through other intimate physical contact. This is because some STDs, like herpes and HPV, are spread by skin-to-skin contact. There are more than 20 types of STDs, including Chlamydia Genital herpes Gonorrhea HIV/AIDS HPV Pubic lice Syphilis Trichomoniasis What causes sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)? STDs can be caused by bacteria , viruses , and parasites . Who is affected by sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)? Most STDs affect both men and women, but in many cases the health problems they cause can be more severe for women. If a pregnant woman has an STD, it can cause serious health problems for the baby. What are the symptoms of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)? STDs don't always cause symptoms or may only cause mild symptoms. So it is possible to have an infection and not know it. But you can still pass it on to others. If there are symptoms, they could include Unusual discharge from the penis or vagina Sores or warts on the genital area Painful or frequent urination Itching and redness in the genital area Blisters or sores in or around the mouth Abnormal vaginal odor Anal itching, soreness, or bleeding Abdominal pain n Fever How are sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) diagnosed? If you are sexually active, you should talk to your health care provider about your risk for STDs and whether you need to be tested. This is especially important since many STDs do not usually cause symptoms. Some STDs may be diagnosed during a physical exam or through microscopic examination of a sore or fluid swabbed from the vagina, penis, or anus. Blood tests can diagnose other types of STDs. What are the treatments for sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)? Antibiotics can treat STDs caused by bacteria or parasites. There is no cure for STDs caused by viruses, but medicines can often help with the symptoms and lower your risk of spreading the infection. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading STDs. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. There are vaccines to prevent HPV and hepatitis B . Can sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) be prevented? Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading STDs. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. There are vaccines to prevent HPV and hepatitis B . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Shingles,https://medlineplus.gov/shingles.html,"Learn about shingles (herpes zoster), which is a painful rash, often on one side of the body. It is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox. "," What is shingles? Shingles is an outbreak of rash or blisters on the skin. It is caused by the varicella-zoster virus - the same virus that causes chickenpox . After you have chickenpox, the virus stays in your body. It may not cause problems for many years. But as you get older, the virus may reappear as shingles. Is shingles contagious? Shingles is not contagious. But you can catch chickenpox from someone with shingles. If you've never had chickenpox or the chickenpox vaccine, try to stay away from anyone who has shingles. If you have shingles, try to stay away from anyone who has not had chickenpox or the chickenpox vaccine, or anyone who might have a weak immune system. Who is at risk for shingles? Anyone who has had chickenpox is at risk for getting shingles. But this risk goes up as you get older; shingles is most common in people over age 50. People with weakened immune systems are at higher risk of getting shingles. This includes those who Have immune system diseases such as HIV/AIDS Have certain cancers Take immunosuppressive drugs after an organ transplant Your immune system may be weaker when you have an infection or are stressed. This can raise your risk of shingles. It is rare, but possible, to get shingles more than once. What are the symptoms of shingles? Early signs of shingles include burning or shooting pain and tingling or itching. It is usually on one side of the body or face. The pain can be mild to severe. One to 14 days later, you will get a rash. It consists of blisters that typically scab over in 7 to 10 days. The rash is usually a single stripe around either the left or the right side of the body. In other cases, the rash occurs on one side of the face. In rare cases (usually among people with weakened immune systems), the rash may be more widespread and look similar to a chickenpox rash. Some people may also have other symptoms: Fever Headache Chills Upset stomach What other problems can shingles cause? Shingles can cause complications: Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) is most common complication of shingles. It causes severe pain in the areas where you had the shingles rash. It usually gets better in a few weeks or months. But some people can have pain from PHN for many years, and it can interfere with daily life. Vision loss can happen if shingles affects your eye. It may be temporary or permanent. Hearing or balance problems are possible if you have shingles within or near your ear. You may also have weakness of the muscles on that side of your face. These problems can be temporary or permanent. Very rarely, shingles can also lead to pneumonia , brain inflammation ( encephalitis ), or death. How is shingles diagnosed? Usually your health care provider can diagnose shingles by taking your medical history and looking at your rash. In some cases, your provider may scrap off tissue from the rash or swab some fluid from the blisters and send the sample to a lab for testing. What are the treatments for shingles? There is no cure for shingles. Antiviral medicines may help to make the attack shorter and less severe. They may also help prevent PHN. The medicines are most effective if you can take them within 3 days after the rash appears. So if you think you might have shingles, contact your health care provider as soon as possible. Pain relievers may also help with the pain. A cool washcloth, calamine lotion, and oatmeal baths may help relieve some of the itching. Can shingles be prevented? There are vaccines to prevent shingles or lessen its effects. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that healthy adults 50 years and older get the Shingrix vaccine. You need two doses of the vaccine, given 2 to 6 months apart. Another vaccine, Zostavax, may be used in certain cases."
Shock,https://medlineplus.gov/shock.html,Shock happens when not enough blood and oxygen can get to your organs and tissues. It can be life threatening. Find out about symptoms and treatment.," Shock happens when not enough blood and oxygen can get to your organs and tissues. It causes very low blood pressure and may be life-threatening. It often happens along with a serious injury. There are several kinds of shock. Hypovolemic shock happens when you lose a lot of blood or fluids. Causes include internal or external bleeding, dehydration, burns, and severe vomiting and/or diarrhea. Septic shock is caused by infections in the bloodstream. A severe allergic reaction can cause anaphylactic shock . An insect bite or sting might cause it. Cardiogenic shock happens when the heart cannot pump blood effectively. This may happen after a heart attack. Neurogenic shock is caused by damage to the nervous system. Symptoms of shock include Confusion or lack of alertness Loss of consciousness Sudden and ongoing rapid heartbeat Sweating Pale skin A weak pulse Rapid breathing Decreased or no urine output Cool hands and feet Shock is a life-threatening medical emergency and it is important to get help right away. Treatment of shock depends on the cause. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Shoulder Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/shoulderinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Your shoulders can be affected by injuries such as sprains, strains and rotator cuff tear. Learn how to treat and prevent shoulder pain and injury."," Your shoulder joint is composed of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone). Your shoulders are the most movable joints in your body. They can also be unstable because the ball of the upper arm is larger than the shoulder socket that holds it. To remain in a stable or normal position, the shoulder must be anchored by muscles, tendons, and ligaments. Because your shoulder can be unstable, it can be easily injured. Common problems include Sprains and strains Dislocations Separations Tendinitis Bursitis Torn rotator cuffs Frozen shoulder Fractures (broken bones) Arthritis Health care providers diagnose shoulder problems by using your medical history, a physical exam, and imaging tests. Often, the first treatment for shoulder problems is RICE. This stands for Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation. Other treatments include exercise and medicines to reduce pain and swelling. If those don't work, you may need surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Sickle Cell Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/sicklecelldisease.html,Sickle cell disease (or sickle cell anemia) causes your body to produce abnormally shaped red blood cells. Learn about symptoms and treatment.," What is sickle cell disease (SCD)? Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a group of inherited red blood cell disorders. If you have SCD, there is a problem with your hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. With SCD, the hemoglobin forms into stiff rods within the red blood cells. This changes the shape of the red blood cells. The cells are supposed to be disc-shaped, but this changes them into a crescent, or sickle, shape. The sickle-shaped cells are not flexible and cannot change shape easily. Many of them burst apart as they move through your blood vessels. The sickle cells usually only last 10 to 20 days, instead of the normal 90 to 120 days. Your body may have trouble making enough new cells to replace the ones that you lost. Because of this, you may not have enough red blood cells. This is a condition called anemia , and it can make you feel tired. The sickle-shaped cells can also stick to vessel walls, causing a blockage that slows or stops the flow of blood. When this happens, oxygen can't reach nearby tissues. The lack of oxygen can cause attacks of sudden, severe pain, called pain crises. These attacks can occur without warning. If you get one, you might need to go to the hospital for treatment. What causes sickle cell disease (SCD)? The cause of SCD is a defective gene, called a sickle cell gene. People with the disease are born with two sickle cell genes, one from each parent. If you are born with one sickle cell gene, it's called sickle cell trait. People with sickle cell trait are generally healthy, but they can pass the defective gene on to their children. Who is at risk for sickle cell disease (SCD)? In the United States, most of the people with SCD are African Americans: About 1 in 13 African American babies is born with sickle cell trait About 1 in every 365 black children is born with sickle cell disease SCD also affects some people who come from Hispanic, southern European, Middle Eastern, or Asian Indian backgrounds. What are the symptoms of sickle cell disease (SCD)? People with SCD start to have signs of the disease during the first year of life, usually around 5 months of age. Early symptoms of SCD may include Painful swelling of the hands and feet Fatigue or fussiness from anemia A yellowish color of the skin ( jaundice ) or the whites of the eyes (icterus) The effects of SCD vary from person to person and can change over time. Most of the signs and symptoms of SCD are related to complications of the disease. They may include severe pain, anemia, organ damage, and infections. How is sickle cell disease (SCD) diagnosed? A blood test can show if you have SCD or sickle cell trait. All states now test newborns as part of their screening programs, so treatment can begin early. People who are thinking about having children can have the test to find out how likely it is that their children will have SCD. Doctors can also diagnose SCD before a baby is born. That test uses a sample of amniotic fluid (the liquid in the sac surrounding the baby) or tissue taken from the placenta (the organ that brings oxygen and nutrients to the baby). What are the treatments for sickle cell disease (SCD)? The only cure for SCD is bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Because these transplants are risky and can have serious side effects, they are usually only used in children with severe SCD. For the transplant to work, the bone marrow must be a close match. Usually, the best donor is a brother or sister. There are treatments that can help relieve symptoms, lessen complications, and prolong life: Antibiotics to try to prevent infections in younger children Pain relievers for acute or chronic pain Hydroxyurea, a medicine that has been shown to reduce or prevent several SCD complications. It increases the amount of fetal hemoglobin in the blood. This medicine is not right for everyone; talk to your health care provider about whether you should take it. This medicine is not safe during pregnancy. Childhood vaccinations to prevent infections Blood transfusions for severe anemia. If you have had some serious complications, such as a stroke , you may have transfusions to prevent more complications. There are other treatments for specific complications. To stay as healthy as possible, make sure that you get regular medical care, live a healthy lifestyle, and avoid situations that may set off a pain crisis. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Sinusitis,https://medlineplus.gov/sinusitis.html,"Sinusitis (inflamed sinuses) is sometimes caused by an infection, but there are several types (such as chronic or recurrent). Find all the symptoms."," Sinusitis means your sinuses are inflamed. The cause can be an infection or another problem. Your sinuses are hollow air spaces within the bones surrounding the nose. They produce mucus, which drains into the nose. If your nose is swollen, this can block the sinuses and cause pain. There are several types of sinusitis, including Acute, which lasts up to 4 weeks Subacute, which lasts 4 to 12 weeks Chronic, which lasts more than 12 weeks and can continue for months or even years Recurrent, with several attacks within a year Acute sinusitis often starts as a cold, which then turns into a bacterial infection. Allergies, nasal problems, and certain diseases can also cause acute and chronic sinusitis. Symptoms of sinusitis can include fever, weakness, fatigue, cough, and congestion. There may also be mucus drainage in the back of the throat, called postnasal drip. Your health care professional diagnoses sinusitis based on your symptoms and an examination of your nose and face. You may also need imaging tests. Treatments include antibiotics, decongestants, and pain relievers. Using heat pads on the inflamed area, saline nasal sprays, and vaporizers can also help."
Sjogren's Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/sjogrenssyndrome.html,"An autoimmune disease that causes dryness of the mouth, eyes and other places is called Sjorgren's Syndrome. Learn how to relieve the symptoms."," Sjogren's syndrome is an autoimmune disease . This means that your immune system attacks parts of your own body by mistake. In Sjogren's syndrome, it attacks the glands that make tears and saliva. This causes a dry mouth and dry eyes . You may have dryness in other places that need moisture, such as your nose, throat, and skin. Sjogren's can also affect other parts of the body, including your joints, lungs, kidneys, blood vessels, digestive organs, and nerves. Most people with Sjogren's syndrome are women. It usually starts after age 40. It is sometimes linked to other diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus . To make a diagnosis, doctors may use a medical history, physical exam, certain eye and mouth tests, blood tests, and biopsies. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms. It can differ for each person; it depends on what parts of the body are affected. It may include artificial tears for dye eyes and sucking on sugar-free candy or drinking water often for a dry mouth. Medicines may help with severe symptoms. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Skin Aging,https://medlineplus.gov/skinaging.html,Direct sunlight on unprotected skin and lifestyle factors can affect skin aging. Find ways to revamp your skin care routine to reduce premature aging.," Your skin changes as you age. You might notice wrinkles, age spots and dryness. Your skin also becomes thinner and loses fat, making it less plump and smooth. It might take longer to heal, too. Sunlight is a major cause of skin aging. You can protect yourself by staying out of the sun when it is strongest, using sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher, wearing protective clothing, and avoiding sunlamps and tanning beds. Cigarette smoking also contributes to wrinkles. The wrinkling increases with the amount of cigarettes and number of years a person has smoked. Many products claim to revitalize aging skin or reduce wrinkles, but the Food and Drug Administration has approved only a few for sun-damaged or aging skin. Various treatments soothe dry skin and reduce the appearance of age spots. NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Skin Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/skincancer.html,"Try ABCDE on a mole to check for signs of skin cancer: Asymmetry, Border, Color, Diameter, Elevation. Learn more on advanced detection and treatments."," Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. The two most common types are basal cell cancer and squamous cell cancer. They usually form on the head, face, neck, hands, and arms. Another type of skin cancer, melanoma , is more dangerous but less common. Anyone can get skin cancer, but it is more common in people who Spend a lot of time in the sun or have been sunburned Have light-colored skin, hair and eyes Have a family member with skin cancer Are over age 50 You should have your doctor check any suspicious skin markings and any changes in the way your skin looks. Treatment is more likely to work well when cancer is found early. If not treated, some types of skin cancer cells can spread to other tissues and organs. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, photodynamic therapy (PDT), and biologic therapy. PDT uses a drug and a type of laser light to kill cancer cells. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Skin Conditions,https://medlineplus.gov/skinconditions.html,"Your skin is your body's largest organ. It covers and protects your body. Learn about skin conditions, including causes, symptoms, and treatment."," Your skin is your body's largest organ. It covers and protects your body. Your skin Holds body fluids in, preventing dehydration Keeps harmful microbes out, preventing infections Helps you feel things like heat, cold, and pain Keeps your body temperature even Makes vitamin D when the sun shines on it Anything that irritates, clogs, or inflames your skin can cause symptoms such as redness, swelling, burning, and itching . Allergies, irritants, your genetic makeup, and certain diseases and immune system problems can cause rashes , hives , and other skin conditions. Many skin problems, such as acne , also affect your appearance. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Skin Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/skininfections.html,"Skin infections can be caused by bacteria, virus, fungus, or parasites. Impetigo is a type among kids. Shingles is a reactivation of chickenpox virus."," What are skin infections? Your skin is your body's largest organ. It has many different functions, including covering and protecting your body. It helps keep germs out. But sometimes the germs can cause a skin infection. This often happens when there is a break, cut, or wound on your skin. It can also happen when your immune system is weakened, because of another disease or a medical treatment. Some skin infections cover a small area on the top of your skin. Other infections can go deep into your skin or spread to a larger area. What causes skin infections? Skin infections are caused by different kinds of germs. For example, Bacteria cause cellulitis , impetigo , and staphylococcal (staph) infections Viruses cause shingles , warts , and herpes simplex Fungi cause athlete's foot and yeast infections Parasites cause body lice , head lice , and scabies Who is at risk for skin infections? You are at a higher risk for a skin infection if you Have poor circulation Have diabetes Are older Have an immune system disease , such as HIV/AIDS Have a weakened immune system because of chemotherapy or other medicines that suppress your immune system Have to stay in one position for a long time, such as if you are sick and have to stay in bed for a long time or you are paralyzed Are malnourished Have excessive skinfolds, which can happen if you have obesity What are the symptoms of skin infections? The symptoms depend on the type of infection. Some symptoms that are common to many skin infections include rashes , swelling, redness, pain, pus, and itching . How are skin infections diagnosed? To diagnose a skin infection, health care providers will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms. You may have lab tests, such as a skin culture. This is a test to identify what type of infection you have, using a sample from your skin. Your provider may take the sample by swabbing or scraping your skin, or removing a small piece of skin ( biopsy ). Sometimes providers use other tests, such as blood tests. How are skin infections treated? The treatment depends on the type of infection and how serious it is. Some infections will go away on their own. When you do need treatment, it may include a cream or lotion to put on the skin. Other possible treatments include medicines and a procedure to drain pus."
Skin Pigmentation Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html,"Read about skin pigmentation disorders, which affect the color of your skin. It could be too light or too dark, in certain areas or all over the body. "," Pigmentation means coloring. Skin pigmentation disorders affect the color of your skin. Your skin gets its color from a pigment called melanin. Special cells in the skin make melanin. When these cells become damaged or unhealthy, it affects melanin production. Some pigmentation disorders affect just patches of skin. Others affect your entire body. If your body makes too much melanin, your skin gets darker. Pregnancy, Addison's disease, and sun exposure all can make your skin darker. If your body makes too little melanin, your skin gets lighter. Vitiligo is a condition that causes patches of light skin. Albinism is a genetic condition affecting a person's skin. A person with albinism may have no color, lighter than normal skin color, or patchy missing skin color. Infections, blisters and burns can also cause lighter skin."
Sleep Apnea,https://medlineplus.gov/sleepapnea.html,Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes your breathing to stop or get very shallow while you sleep. Discover sleep apnea symptoms and treatment.," Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes your breathing to stop or get very shallow. Breathing pauses can last from a few seconds to minutes. They may occur 30 times or more an hour. The most common type is obstructive sleep apnea. It causes your airway to collapse or become blocked during sleep. Normal breathing starts again with a snort or choking sound. People with sleep apnea often snore loudly. However, not everyone who snores has sleep apnea. You are more at risk for sleep apnea if you are overweight, male, or have a family history or small airways. Children with enlarged tonsils or adenoids may also get it. Doctors diagnose sleep apnea based on medical and family histories, a physical exam, and sleep study results. When your sleep is interrupted throughout the night, you can be drowsy during the day. People with sleep apnea are at higher risk for car crashes, work-related accidents, and other medical problems. If you have it, it is important to get treatment. Lifestyle changes, mouthpieces, surgery, and breathing devices can treat sleep apnea in many people. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Sleep Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/sleepdisorders.html,"Getting a good sleep is vital to your health, but many Americans don't get enough. Learn about sleep disorders, treatments, and good sleep habits."," What is sleep? Sleep is a complex biological process. While you are sleeping, you are unconscious, but your brain and body functions are still active. They are doing a number of important jobs that help you stay healthy and function at your best. So when you don't get enough quality sleep, it does more than just make you feel tired. It can affect your physical and mental health, thinking, and daily functioning. What are sleep disorders? Sleep disorders are conditions that disturb your normal sleep patterns. There are more than 80 different sleep disorders. Some major types include Insomnia - being unable to fall asleep and stay asleep. This is the most common sleep disorder. Sleep apnea - a breathing disorder in which you stop breathing for 10 seconds or more during sleep Restless leg syndrome (RLS) - a tingling or prickly sensation in your legs, along with a powerful urge to move them Hypersomnia - being unable to stay awake during the day. This includes narcolepsy, which causes extreme daytime sleepiness. Circadian rhythm disorders - problems with the sleep-wake cycle. They make you unable to sleep and wake at the right times. Parasomnia - acting in unusual ways while falling asleep, sleeping, or waking from sleep, such as walking, talking, or eating Some people who feel tired during the day have a true sleep disorder. But for others, the real problem is not allowing enough time for sleep. It's important to get enough sleep every night. The amount of sleep you need depends on several factors, including your age, lifestyle, health, and whether you have been getting enough sleep recently. Most adults need about 7-8 hours each night. What causes sleep disorders? There are different causes for different sleep disorders, including Other conditions, such as heart disease , lung disease , nerve disorders , and pain Mental illnesses , including depression and anxiety Medicines Genetics Sometimes the cause is unknown. There are also some factors that can contribute to sleep problems, including Caffeine and alcohol An irregular schedule, such as working the night shift Aging. As people age, they often get less sleep or spend less time in the deep, restful stage of sleep. They are also more easily awakened. What are the symptoms of sleep disorders? The symptoms of sleep disorders depend on the specific disorder. Some signs that you may have a sleep disorder include that You regularly take more than 30 minutes each night to fall asleep You regularly wake up several times each night and then have trouble falling back to sleep, or you wake up too early in the morning You often feel sleepy during the day, take frequent naps, or fall asleep at the wrong times during the day Your bed partner says that when you sleep, you snore loudly, snort, gasp, make choking sounds, or stop breathing for short periods You have creeping, tingling, or crawling feelings in your legs or arms that are relieved by moving or massaging them, especially in the evening and when trying to fall asleep Your bed partner notices that your legs or arms jerk often during sleep You have vivid, dreamlike experiences while falling asleep or dozing You have episodes of sudden muscle weakness when you are angry or fearful, or when you laugh You feel as though you cannot move when you first wake up How are sleep disorders diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will use your medical history, your sleep history, and a physical exam. You may also have a sleep study (polysomnogram). The most common types of sleep studies monitor and record data about your body during a full night of sleep. The data includes Brain wave changes Eye movements Breathing rate Blood pressure Heart rate and electrical activity of the heart and other muscles Other types of sleep studies may check how quickly you fall asleep during daytime naps or whether you are able to stay awake and alert during the day. What are the treatments for sleep disorders? Treatments for sleep disorders depend on which disorder you have. They may include Good sleep habits and other lifestyle changes, such as a healthy diet and exercise Cognitive behavioral therapy or relaxation techniques to reduce anxiety about getting enough sleep CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) machine for sleep apnea Bright light therapy (in the morning) Medicines, including sleeping pills. Usually, providers recommend that you use sleeping pills for a short period of time. Natural products, such as melatonin. These products may help some people but are generally for short-term use. Make sure to check with your health care provider before you take any of them."
Small Intestine Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/smallintestinedisorders.html,Your small intestine connects your stomach to your large intestine (or colon). Find out about different diseases and disorders of the small intestine.," Your small intestine is the longest part of your digestive system - about twenty feet long! It connects your stomach to your large intestine (or colon) and folds many times to fit inside your abdomen. Your small intestine does most of the digesting of the foods you eat. It has three areas called the duodenum, the ileum, and the jejunum. Problems with the small intestine can include: Bleeding Celiac disease Crohn's disease Infections Intestinal cancer Intestinal obstruction Irritable bowel syndrome Ulcers, such as peptic ulcer Treatment of disorders of the small intestine depends on the cause."
Smallpox,https://medlineplus.gov/smallpox.html,Smallpox is an infectious disease caused by the Variola virus. It is contagious and has killed thousands. Find a list of symptoms related to smallpox," Smallpox is a disease caused by the Variola major virus. Some experts say that over the centuries it has killed more people than all other infectious diseases combined. Worldwide vaccination stopped the spread of smallpox three decades ago. The last case was reported in 1977. Two research labs still keep small amounts of the virus. Experts fear bioterrorists could use the virus to spread disease. Smallpox spreads very easily from person to person. Symptoms are flu-like. They include High fever Fatigue Headache Backache A rash with flat red sores There is no treatment. Fluids and medicines for pain or fever can help control symptoms. Most people recover, but some can die. Those who do recover may have severe scars. The U.S. stopped routine smallpox vaccinations in 1972. Military and other high-risk groups continue to get the vaccine. The U.S. has increased its supply of the vaccine in recent years. The vaccine makes some people sick, so doctors save it for those at highest risk of disease."
Smokeless Tobacco,https://medlineplus.gov/smokelesstobacco.html,Those who enjoy chewing tobacco think it's safer thansmoking. But smokeless tobacco can also cause dangerous risks. Read about them.," Many people who chew tobacco or dip snuff think it's safer than smoking . But you don't have to smoke tobacco for it to be dangerous. Chewing or dipping carries risks like Cancer of the mouth Decay of exposed tooth roots Pulling away of the gums from the teeth White patches or red sores in the mouth that can turn to cancer Recent research shows the dangers of smokeless tobacco may go beyond the mouth. It might also play a role in other cancers, heart disease and stroke. Smokeless tobacco contains more nicotine than cigarettes. Nicotine is a highly addictive drug that makes it hard to stop using tobacco once you start. Having a quit date and a quitting plan can help you stop successfully. NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
Smoking,https://medlineplus.gov/smoking.html,There's no way around it. Smoking is bad for your health. Learn the effects of smoking (how smoking harms nearly every organ) and how to quit.," What are the health effects of smoking? There's no way around it; smoking is bad for your health. It harms nearly every organ of the body, some that you would not expect. Cigarette smoking causes nearly one in five deaths in the United States. It can also cause many other cancers and health problems. These include Cancers, including lung and oral cancers Lung diseases , such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) Damage to and thickening of blood vessels, which causes high blood pressure Blood clots and stroke Vision problems , such as cataracts and macular degeneration (AMD) Women who smoke while pregnant have a greater chance of certain pregnancy problems . Their babies are also at higher risk of dying of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Smoking also causes addiction to nicotine, a stimulant drug that is in tobacco. Nicotine addiction makes it much harder for people to quit smoking. What are the health risks of secondhand smoke? Your smoke is also bad for other people - they breathe in your smoke secondhand and can get many of the same problems as smokers do. This includes heart disease and lung cancer. Children exposed to secondhand smoke have a higher risk of ear infections , colds , pneumonia , bronchitis, and more severe asthma . Mothers who breathe secondhand smoke while pregnant are more likely to have preterm labor and babies with low birth weight . Are other forms of tobacco also dangerous? Besides cigarettes, there are several other forms of tobacco. Some people smoke tobacco in cigars and water pipes (hookahs). These forms of tobacco also contain harmful chemicals and nicotine. Some cigars contain as much tobacco as an entire pack of cigarettes. E-cigarettes often look like cigarettes, but they work differently. They are battery-operated smoking devices. Using an e-cigarette is called vaping. Not much is known about the health risks of using them. We do know they contain nicotine, the same addictive substance in tobacco cigarettes. E-cigarettes also expose non-smokers to secondhand aerosols (rather than secondhand smoke), which contain harmful chemicals. Smokeless tobacco , such as chewing tobacco and snuff, is also bad for your health. Smokeless tobacco can cause certain cancers, including oral cancer. It also increases your risk of getting heart disease, gum disease , and oral lesions. Why should I quit? Remember, there is no safe level of tobacco use. Smoking even just one cigarette per day over a lifetime can cause smoking-related cancers and premature death. Quitting smoking can reduce your risk of health problems. The earlier you quit, the greater the benefit. Some immediate benefits of quitting include Lower heart rate and blood pressure Less carbon monoxide in the blood (carbon monoxide reduces the blood's ability to carry oxygen) Better circulation Less coughing and wheezing NIH National Cancer Institute"
Smoking and Youth,https://medlineplus.gov/smokingandyouth.html,"Smoking cigarettes presents health risks for everyone, particularly for young adults under 21. Read more about some of the associated problems"," Smoking cigarettes has many health risks for everyone. However, the younger you are when you start smoking, the more problems it can cause. People who start smoking before the age of 21 have the hardest time quitting. Teens who smoke are also more likely to use alcohol and illegal drugs. The problem is not just cigarettes. Spit tobacco , e-cigarettes , and cigars are not safe alternatives to cigarettes. Low-tar and additive-free tobacco products are not safe either. Young people who do not start using tobacco by age 18 will most likely never start. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Snoring,https://medlineplus.gov/snoring.html,Snoring is the sound you make when your breathing is blocked while you are asleep. Learn common causes. Find treatments available to reduce snoring.," Snoring is the sound you make when your breathing is blocked while you are asleep. The sound is caused by tissues at the top of your airway that strike each other and vibrate. Snoring is common, especially among older people and people who are overweight. When severe, snoring can cause frequent awakenings at night and daytime sleepiness. It can disrupt your bed partner's sleep. Snoring can also be a sign of a serious sleep disorder called sleep apnea . You should see your health care provider if you are often tired during the day, don't feel that you sleep well, or wake up gasping. To reduce snoring Lose weight if you are overweight. It may help, but thin people can snore, too. Cut down or avoid alcohol and other sedatives at bedtime Don't sleep flat on your back NIH: National Institute on Aging"
Sodium,https://medlineplus.gov/sodium.html,Did you know that most Americans get more sodium than they need? Read about what you can do to manage your sodium intake," Table salt is a combination of two minerals - sodium and chloride Your body needs some sodium to work properly. It helps with the function of nerves and muscles. It also helps to keep the right balance of fluids in your body. Your kidneys control how much sodium is in your body. If you have too much and your kidneys can't get rid it, sodium builds up in your blood. This can lead to high blood pressure . High blood pressure can lead to other health problems. Most people in the U.S. get more sodium in their diets than they need. A key to healthy eating is choosing foods low in sodium. The Dietary Guidelines recommend that most adults eat less than 2.3 grams per day. That equals about 1 teaspoon of table salt a day. Some people are more sensitive to the effects of salt than others and should eat less. This includes people who have high blood pressure, diabetes, or kidney problems, or are African American or over age 50. Reading food labels can help you see how much sodium is in prepared foods. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Soft Tissue Sarcoma,https://medlineplus.gov/softtissuesarcoma.html,"Soft tissue sarcoma refers to cancer that begins in the muscle, fat, vessels or tendons. It can cause a lump or swelling. See which treatments are available"," Your soft tissues connect, support, or surround other tissues. Examples include your muscles, tendons, fat, and blood vessels. Soft tissue sarcoma is a cancer of these soft tissues. There are many kinds, based on the type of tissue they started in. They may cause a lump or swelling in the soft tissue. Sometimes they spread and can press on nerves and organs, causing problems such as pain or trouble breathing. No one knows exactly what causes these cancers. They are not common, but you have a higher risk if you have been exposed to certain chemicals, have had radiation therapy, or have certain genetic diseases. Doctors diagnose soft tissue sarcomas with a biopsy. Treatments include surgery to remove the tumor, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Sore Throat,https://medlineplus.gov/sorethroat.html,"Sore throat or pharyngitis has many causes including allergies, smoking, strep throat, and mononucleosis. Find treatments options depending on cause."," Your throat is a tube that carries food to your esophagus and air to your windpipe and larynx (also called the voice box). The technical name for the throat is pharynx. You can have a sore throat for many reasons. Often, colds and flu cause sore throats. Other causes can include: Allergies Mononucleosis Smoking Strep throat Tonsillitis Treatment depends on the cause. Sucking on lozenges, drinking lots of liquids, and gargling may ease the pain. Over-the-counter pain relievers can also help, but children should not take aspirin."
Speech and Communication Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/speechandcommunicationdisorders.html,Speech and communication disorders affect our ability to communicate. From saying sounds incorrectly to being unable to understand others talking.," Many disorders can affect our ability to speak and communicate. They range from saying sounds incorrectly to being completely unable to speak or understand speech. Causes include Hearing disorders and deafness Voice problems , such as dysphonia or those caused by cleft lip or palate Speech problems like stuttering Developmental disabilities Learning disabilities Autism spectrum disorder Brain injury Stroke Some speech and communication problems may be genetic. Often, no one knows the causes. By first grade, about 5% of children have noticeable speech disorders. Speech and language therapy can help. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Speech and Language Problems in Children,https://medlineplus.gov/speechandlanguageproblemsinchildren.html,It can be hard to know if your child's speech or language delay is a problem. Read about the types of problems and how they are diagnosed and treated.," Children vary in their development of speech and language skills. Health care professionals have lists of milestones for what's normal. These milestones help figure out whether a child is on track or if he or she may need extra help. For example, a child usually has one or two words like ""Hi,"" ""dog,"" ""Dada,"" or ""Mama"" by her first birthday. Sometimes a delay may be caused by hearing loss . Other times it may be due to a speech or language disorder. Children who have speech disorders may have trouble making speech sounds correctly. They may hesitate or stutter when talking. Children with language disorders might have trouble understanding what others say or difficulty sharing their thoughts. If you have concerns about your child's speech or language development, talk to your child's health care provider. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Spider Bites,https://medlineplus.gov/spiderbites.html,"Spider bites generally garner a reaction similar to that of a bee sting, including redness, pain and swelling. Find tips on how to treat spider bites"," Though many people are afraid of spiders, they rarely bite people unless threatened. Most spider bites are harmless. Occasionally, spider bites can cause allergic reactions. And bites by the venomous black widow and brown recluse spiders can be very dangerous to people. If you are bitten by a spider, you may see a reaction similar to that of a bee sting, including redness, pain and swelling at the site. To treat a spider bite: Wash the area well with soap and water Apply an ice pack or a wet compress to the area Take over-the-counter pain medicine, if needed Consider using antihistamines for severe swelling Seek medical treatment for small children and adults with severe symptoms"
Spina Bifida,https://medlineplus.gov/spinabifida.html,"Spina bifida is a type of birth defect of an unborn baby's brain, spine, or spinal cord. Screening tests during pregnancy can detect."," Spina bifida is a neural tube defect - a type of birth defect of the brain, spine, or spinal cord. It happens if the spinal column of the fetus doesn't close completely during the first month of pregnancy. This can damage the nerves and spinal cord. Screening tests during pregnancy can check for spina bifida. Sometimes it is discovered only after the baby is born. The symptoms of spina bifida vary from person to person. Most people with spina bifida are of normal intelligence. Some people need assistive devices such as braces, crutches, or wheelchairs. They may have learning difficulties, urinary and bowel problems, or hydrocephalus , a buildup of fluid in the brain. The exact cause of spina bifida is unknown. It seems to run in families. Taking folic acid can reduce the risk of having a baby with spina bifida. It's in most multivitamins. Women who could become pregnant should take it daily. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Spinal Cord Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/spinalcorddiseases.html,"Read about diseases of the spinal cord, the bundle of nerves running down the middle of your back. It carries signals between the brain and the body."," Your spinal cord is a bundle of nerves that runs down the middle of your back. It carries signals back and forth between your body and your brain. It is protected by your vertebrae, which are the bone disks that make up your spine. If you have an accident that damages the vertebrae or other parts of the spine, this can also injure the spinal cord. Other spinal cord problems include Tumors Infections such as meningitis and polio Inflammatory diseases Autoimmune diseases Degenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscular atrophy Symptoms vary but might include pain, numbness, loss of sensation and muscle weakness. These symptoms can occur around the spinal cord, and also in other areas such as your arms and legs. Treatments often include medicines and surgery."
Spinal Cord Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/spinalcordinjuries.html,Spinal cord injuries disrupt signals between your brain and body. This can cause problems like weakness and paralysis. Read about treatment and rehab.," Your spinal cord is a bundle of nerves that runs down the middle of your back. It carries signals back and forth between your body and your brain. A spinal cord injury disrupts the signals. Spinal cord injuries usually begin with a blow that fractures (breaks) or dislocates your vertebrae, the bone disks that make up your spine. Most injuries don't cut through your spinal cord. Instead, they cause damage when pieces of vertebrae tear into cord tissue or press down on the nerve parts that carry signals. Spinal cord injuries can be complete or incomplete. With a complete spinal cord injury, the cord can't send signals below the level of the injury. As a result, you are paralyzed below the injury. With an incomplete injury, you have some movement and sensation below the injury. A spinal cord injury is a medical emergency. Immediate treatment can reduce long-term effects. Treatments may include medicines, braces or traction to stabilize the spine, and surgery. Later treatment usually includes medicines and rehabilitation therapy. Mobility aids and assistive devices may help you to get around and do some daily tasks. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Spinal Muscular Atrophy,https://medlineplus.gov/spinalmuscularatrophy.html,"Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) attacks nerve cells in the spinal cord, weakening voluntary muscles. Read about the genetics, types, and what may help. "," What is spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)? Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a group of genetic diseases that damages and kills motor neurons. Motor neurons are a type of nerve cell in the spinal cord and lower part of the brain. They control movement in your arms, legs, face, chest, throat, and tongue. As the motor neurons die off, your muscles start to weaken and atrophy (waste away). The muscle damage gets worse over time and can affect speaking, walking, swallowing, and breathing. What are the types of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and what are their symptoms? There are different types of SMA. They are based on how serious the disease is and when the symptoms start: Type l is also called Werdnig-Hoffman disease or infantile-onset SMA. It is the most severe type. It is also the most common. Babies with this type usually show signs of the disease before 6 months of age. In more severe cases, the signs show up even before or just after birth (Types 0 or 1A). The babies may have trouble swallowing and breathing and may not move around a lot. They have chronic shortening of muscles or tendons (called contractures). They usually cannot sit up without help. Without treatment, many children with this type will die before 2 years of age. Type ll is a moderate to severe type of SMA. It usually first noticed between 6 and 18 months of age. Most children with this type can sit without support but cannot stand or walk without help. They may also have trouble breathing. They can usually live into adolescence or young adulthood. Type lll is also called Kugelberg-Welander disease. It is the mildest type that affects children. The signs of the disease usually show up after age 18 months. Children with this type can walk by themselves but may have trouble running, getting up from a chair, or climbing stairs. They may also have scoliosis (curvature of the spine), contractures, and respiratory infections. With treatment, most children with this type will have a normal lifespan. Type IV is rare and often mild. It usually causes symptoms after 21 years of age. The symptoms include mild to moderate leg muscle weakness, tremors , and mild breathing problems. The symptoms slowly get worse over time. People with this type of SMA have a normal lifespan. What causes spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)? Most types of SMA are caused by a change in the SMN1 gene . This gene is responsible for making a protein that the motor neurons need to be healthy and to function. But when part of the SMN1 gene is missing or abnormal, there isn't enough protein for the motor neurons. This causes the motor neurons to die off. Most people have two copies of the SM1 gene - one from each parent. SMA normally only happens when both copies have the gene change. If only one copy has the change, there usually aren't any symptoms. But that gene could be passed down from parent to child. Some of the less common types of SMA may be caused by changes in other genes. How is spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to diagnose SMA: A physical exam A medical history, including asking about family history Genetic testing to check for the gene changes that cause SMA Electromyography and nerve conduction studies and a muscle biopsy may be done, especially if no gene changes were found Parents who have a family history of SMA may want to do a prenatal test to check to see whether their baby has an SMN1 gene change. An amniocentesis or in some cases a chorionic villi sampling (CVS) is used to get the sample for testing. In some states, genetic testing for SMA is part of newborn screening tests . What are the treatments for spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)? There is no cure for SMA. Treatments can help manage symptoms and prevent complications. They may include Medicines to help the body make more of the proteins that the motor neurons need Gene therapy for children under 2 years of age Physical, occupational, and rehabilitation therapy to help to improve posture and the mobility of the joints. These therapies may also improve blood flow and slow muscle weakness and atrophy. Some people may also need therapy for trouble speaking , chewing, and swallowing. Assistive devices such as supports or braces, orthotics, speech synthesizers, and wheelchairs to help people stay more independent Good nutrition and a balanced diet to help maintain weight and strength. Some people might need a feeding tube in order to get the nutrition they need. Breathing support for people who have muscle weakness in the neck, throat, and chest. The support may include devices to help with breathing during the day and to prevent sleep apnea at night. Some people might need to be on a ventilator. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Spinal Stenosis,https://medlineplus.gov/spinalstenosis.html,"Spinal stenosis causes narrowing in your spine which puts pressure on your nerves and spinal chord. It can cause pain, numbness, and foot problems."," Your spine, or backbone, protects your spinal cord and allows you to stand and bend. Spinal stenosis causes narrowing in your spine. The narrowing puts pressure on your nerves and spinal cord and can cause pain. Spinal stenosis occurs mostly in people older than 50. Younger people with a spine injury or a narrow spinal canal are also at risk. Diseases such as arthritis and scoliosis can cause spinal stenosis, too. Symptoms might appear gradually or not at all. They include Pain in your neck or back Numbness, weakness, cramping, or pain in your arms or legs Pain going down the leg Foot problems Doctors diagnose spinal stenosis with a physical exam and imaging tests. Treatments include medications, physical therapy, braces, and surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Spine Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/spineinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Spine injuries and spine disorders such as infection, scoliosis, and herniated disk can cause pain and other issues. Read about problems of the spine."," Your backbone, or spine, is made up of 26 bone discs called vertebrae. The vertebrae protect your spinal cord and allow you to stand and bend. A number of problems can change the structure of the spine or damage the vertebrae and surrounding tissue. They include Infections Injuries Tumors Conditions, such as ankylosing spondylitis and scoliosis Bone changes that come with age, such as spinal stenosis and herniated disks Spinal diseases often cause pain when bone changes put pressure on the spinal cord or nerves. They can also limit movement. Treatments differ by disease, but sometimes they include back braces and surgery."
Spleen Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/spleendiseases.html,"The spleen is an organ above the stomach, under the ribs. Certain diseases may cause a spleen to swell. A damaged spleen may need removed. Read more."," Your spleen is an organ above your stomach and under your ribs on your left side. It is about as big as your fist. The spleen is part of your lymphatic system , which fights infection and keeps your body fluids in balance. It contains white blood cells that fight germs. Your spleen also helps control the amount of blood in your body, and destroys old and damaged cells. Certain diseases might cause your spleen to swell. You can also damage or rupture your spleen in an injury, especially if it is already swollen. If your spleen is too damaged, you might need surgery to remove it. You can live without a spleen. Other organs, such as your liver, will take over some of the spleen's work. Without a spleen, however, your body will lose some of its ability to fight infections."
Sports Fitness,https://medlineplus.gov/sportsfitness.html,Sports are a great way to get or stay in shape. Find tips on what you can do before and after your sports fitness session to maintain your health," Sports can be a great way to get in shape or stay that way. Having a specific goal can be a great motivator. Physically, you need strength and endurance. Your training will vary with your sport. You would not train the same way for pole vaulting as for swimming. You might, however, cross train. Cross training simply means that you include a variety of fitness activities in your program. Research shows that cross training builds stronger bones. Remember to listen to your body. If you frequently feel exhausted or you are in pain, you may be overdoing it. Injuries can be the result. And be sure that you use your body and your equipment safely . What you eat and drink is also important. Water is the most important nutrient for active people. Drink it before, during and after workouts."
Sports Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/sportsinjuries.html,"Get the facts on sports injuries, including the most common types, and read about the treatments available"," Exercising is good for you, but sometimes you can injure yourself when you play sports or exercise. Accidents, poor training practices, or improper gear can cause them. Some people get hurt because they are not in shape. Not warming up or stretching enough can also lead to injuries. The most common sports injuries are Sprains and strains Knee injuries Swollen muscles Achilles tendon injuries Pain along the shin bone Rotator cuff injuries Fractures (broken bones) Dislocations If you get hurt, stop playing. Continuing to play or exercise can cause more harm. Treatment often begins with the RICE (Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation) method to relieve pain, reduce swelling, and speed healing. Other possible treatments include pain relievers, keeping the injured area from moving, rehabilitation, and sometimes surgery. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Sports Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/sportssafety.html,"If you play sports, your safety should be a priority. Learn how to prevent related injuries by taking the following precautions"," Playing sports can be fun, but it can also be dangerous if you are not careful. You can help prevent injuries by Getting a physical to make sure you are healthy before you start playing your sport Wearing the right shoes, gear, and equipment Drinking lots of water Warming up and stretching If you have already hurt yourself playing a sport, make sure you recover completely before you start up again. If possible, protect the injured part of your body with padding, a brace, or special equipment. When you do start playing again, start slowly."
Sprains and Strains,https://medlineplus.gov/sprainsandstrains.html,A sprain is a stretch or tear of a ligament while a strain is an injury to a muscle or tendon. Learn how to lower your risks of sprains and strains. ," A sprain is a stretched or torn ligament. Ligaments are tissues that connect bones at a joint. Falling, twisting, or getting hit can all cause a sprain. Ankle and wrist sprains are common. Symptoms include pain, swelling, bruising, and being unable to move your joint. You might feel a pop or tear when the injury happens. A strain is a stretched or torn muscle or tendon. Tendons are tissues that connect muscle to bone. Twisting or pulling these tissues can cause a strain. Strains can happen suddenly or develop over time. Back and hamstring muscle strains are common. Many people get strains playing sports. Symptoms include pain, muscle spasms, swelling, and trouble moving the muscle. At first, treatment of both sprains and strains usually involves resting the injured area, icing it, wearing a bandage or device that compresses the area, and medicines. Later treatment might include exercise and physical therapy. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
Staphylococcal Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/staphylococcalinfections.html,Staph infections are caused by bacteria that are commonly found on the skin or in the nose. Learn how to prevent and treat Staph infections.," What are Staphylococcal (staph) infections? Staphylococcus (staph) is a group of bacteria. There are more than 30 types. A type called Staphylococcus aureus causes most infections. Staph bacteria can cause many different types of infections, including Skin infections , which are the most common types of staph infections Bacteremia, an infection of the bloodstream. This can lead to sepsis , a very serious immune response to infection. Bone infections Endocarditis , an infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers and valves Food poisoning Pneumonia Toxic shock syndrome (TSS), a life-threatening condition caused by toxins from certain types of bacteria What causes staph infections? Some people carry staph bacteria on their skin or in their noses, but they do not get an infection. But if they get a cut or wound, the bacteria can enter the body and cause an infection. Staph bacteria can spread from person to person. They can also spread on objects, such as towels, clothing, door handles, athletic equipment, and remotes. If you have staph and do not handle food properly when you are preparing it, you can also spread staph to others. Who is at risk for staph infections? Anyone can develop a staph infection, but certain people are at greater risk, including those who Have a chronic condition such as diabetes , cancer, vascular disease , eczema , and lung disease Have a weakened immune system, such as from HIV/AIDS , medicines to prevent organ rejection, or chemotherapy Had surgery Use a catheter, breathing tube, or feeding tube Are on dialysis Inject illegal drugs Do contact sports, since you may have skin-to-skin contact with others or share equipment What are the symptoms of staph infections? The symptoms of a staph infection depend on the type of infection: Skin infections can look like pimples or boils. They may be red, swollen, and painful. Sometimes there is pus or other drainage. They can turn into impetigo , which turns into a crust on the skin, or cellulitis , a swollen, red area of skin that feels hot. Bone infections can cause pain, swelling, warmth, and redness in the infected area. You may also have chills and a fever. Endocarditis causes some flu-like symptoms: fever, chills, and fatigue. It also causes symptoms such as rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, and fluid buildup in your arms or legs. Food poisoning typically causes nausea and vomiting , diarrhea , and a fever. If you lose too many fluids, you may also become dehydrated . Pneumonia symptoms include a high fever, chills, and cough that doesn't get better. You may also have chest pain and shortness of breath. Toxic shock syndrome (TSS) causes high fever, sudden low blood pressure, vomiting, diarrhea, and confusion. You may have a sunburn-like rash somewhere on your body. TSS can lead to organ failure. How are staph infections diagnosed? Your health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms. Often, providers can tell if you have a staph skin infection by looking at it. To check for other types of staph infections, providers may do a culture , with a skin scraping, tissue sample, stool sample, or throat or nasal swabs. There may be other tests, such as imaging tests , depending on the type of infection. What are the treatments for staph infections? Treatment for staph infections is antibiotics . Depending on the type of infection, you may get a cream, ointment, medicines (to swallow), or intravenous (IV). If you have an infected wound, your provider might drain it. Sometimes you may need surgery for bone infections. Some staph infections, such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), are resistant to many antibiotics . There are still certain antibiotics that can treat these infections. Can staph infections be prevented? Certain steps can help to prevent staph infections: Use good hygiene , including washing your hands often Don't share towels, sheets, or clothing with someone who has a staph infection It's best not to share athletic equipment. If you do need to share, make sure that it properly cleaned and dried before you use it. Practice food safety , including not preparing food for others when you have a staph infection If you have a cut or wound, keep it covered"
Statins,https://medlineplus.gov/statins.html,"If diet and exercise don't reduce your cholesterol levels, you may need to take medicine. Often, this medicine is a statin. Learn more about statins."," Statins are drugs used to lower cholesterol . Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even block them. If diet and exercise don't reduce your cholesterol levels, you may need to take cholesterol medicine . Often, this medicine is a statin. Statins interfere with the production of cholesterol in your liver. They lower LDL (bad) cholesterol levels and raise HDL (good) cholesterol levels. This can slow the formation of plaques in your arteries. Statins are relatively safe for most people. But they are not recommended for pregnant patients or those with active or chronic liver disease. They can also cause serious muscle problems. Some statins also interact adversely with other drugs. You may have fewer side effects with one statin drug than another. Researchers are also studying the use of statins for other conditions. Food and Drug Administration"
Stem Cells,https://medlineplus.gov/stemcells.html,There are two main types of stem cells: embryonic stem cells and adult stem cells. Read about three ways stem cells differ from other cells in the body," Stem cells are cells with the potential to develop into many different types of cells in the body. They serve as a repair system for the body. There are two main types of stem cells: embryonic stem cells and adult stem cells. Stem cells are different from other cells in the body in three ways: They can divide and renew themselves over a long time They are unspecialized, so they cannot do specific functions in the body They have the potential to become specialized cells, such as muscle cells, blood cells, and brain cells Doctors and scientists are excited about stem cells because they could help in many different areas of health and medical research. Studying stem cells may help explain how serious conditions such as birth defects and cancer come about. Stem cells may one day be used to make cells and tissues for therapy of many diseases. Examples include Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, spinal cord injury, heart disease, diabetes, and arthritis. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Steroids,https://medlineplus.gov/steroids.html,Anabolic steroids are often used illegally to build muscle. But corticosteroids are used to treat a variety of health problems. Learn more about steroids.," You may have heard of anabolic steroids , which can have harmful effects. But there's another type of steroid - sometimes called a corticosteroid - that treats a variety of problems. These steroids are similar to hormones that your adrenal glands make to fight stress associated with illnesses and injuries. They reduce inflammation and affect the immune system. You may need to take corticosteroids to treat Arthritis Asthma Autoimmune diseases such as lupus and multiple sclerosis Skin conditions such as eczema and rashes Some kinds of cancer Steroids are strong medicines, and they can have side effects, including weakened bones and cataracts. Because of this, you usually take them for as short a time as possible."
Stillbirth,https://medlineplus.gov/stillbirth.html,A stillbirth is when a mother's baby dies in the womb after the 20th week of pregnancy. Read more on how to cope or support your loved one.," If a woman loses a pregnancy after she's past her 20th week, it's called a stillbirth. Stillbirths are due to natural causes. They can happen before delivery or during delivery. Causes include: Problems with the placenta, the organ that transports oxygen and nutrients to the fetus Genetic problems with the fetus Fetal infections Other physical problems in the fetus In at least half of all cases, it is not possible to tell why the baby died. If stillbirth happens before delivery, your health care provider may induce labor or perform a Cesarean section to deliver the fetus. In some cases, you can wait until you go into labor yourself. This usually happens within two weeks of stillbirth. Counseling may help you cope with your grief. Later, if you do decide to try again, work closely with your health care provider to lower the risks. Many women who have a stillbirth go on to have healthy babies. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Stomach Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/stomachcancer.html,Did you know risk factors for stomach (gastric) cancer include a diet high in salty or smoked food or having an H. pylori infection? Learn more here.," The stomach is an organ between the esophagus and the small intestine. It mixes food with stomach acid and helps digest protein. Stomach cancer mostly affects older people - two-thirds of people who have it are over age 65. Your risk of getting it is also higher if you Have had a Helicobacter pylori infection Have had stomach inflammation Are a man Eat lots of salted, smoked, or pickled foods Smoke cigarettes Have a family history of stomach cancer It is hard to diagnose stomach cancer in its early stages. Indigestion and stomach discomfort can be symptoms of early cancer, but other problems can cause the same symptoms. In advanced cases, there may be blood in your stool, vomiting, unexplained weight loss, jaundice, or trouble swallowing. Doctors diagnose stomach cancer with a physical exam, blood and imaging tests, an endoscopy, and a biopsy. Because it is often found late, it can be hard to treat stomach cancer. Treatment options include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation or a combination. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Stomach Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/stomachdisorders.html,Have questions about what's causing your bellyache? Take a look at this information on stomach disorders. Find information on kids and adults.," Your stomach is an organ between your esophagus and small intestine. It is where digestion of protein begins. The stomach has three tasks. It stores swallowed food. It mixes the food with stomach acids. Then it sends the mixture on to the small intestine. Most people have a problem with their stomach at one time or another. Indigestion and heartburn are common problems. You can relieve some stomach problems with over-the-counter medicines and lifestyle changes, such as avoiding fatty foods or eating more slowly. Other problems like peptic ulcers or GERD require medical attention. You should see a doctor if you have any of the following: Blood when you have a bowel movement Severe abdominal pain Heartburn not relieved by antacids Unintended weight loss Ongoing vomiting or diarrhea NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Streptococcal Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/streptococcalinfections.html,Streptococcal is a type of bacteria that can cause strep throat (group A) or blood infections (group B). Learn how they can be prevented and treated.," Strep is short for Streptococcus, a type of bacteria. There are several types. Two of them cause most of the strep infections in people: group A and group B. Group A strep causes Strep throat - a sore, red throat. Your tonsils may be swollen and have white spots on them. Scarlet fever - an illness that follows strep throat. It causes a red rash on the body. Impetigo - a skin infection Toxic shock syndrome Cellulitis and necrotizing fasciitis (flesh-eating disease) Group B strep can cause blood infections, pneumonia and meningitis in newborns. A screening test during pregnancy can tell if you have it. If you do, intravenous (IV) antibiotics during labor can save your baby's life. Adults can also get group B strep infections, especially if they are 65 or older or already have health problems. Strep B can cause urinary tract infections, blood infections, skin infections and pneumonia in adults. Antibiotics are used to treat strep infections."
Stress,https://medlineplus.gov/stress.html,"Read about causes, symptoms and treatments associated with stress, something that most people encounter from time to time."," Everyone feels stressed from time to time. Not all stress is bad. All animals have a stress response, and it can be life-saving. But chronic stress can cause both physical and mental harm. There are at least three different types of stress: Routine stress related to the pressures of work, family, and other daily responsibilities Stress brought about by a sudden negative change, such as losing a job, divorce, or illness Traumatic stress, which happens when you are in danger of being seriously hurt or killed. Examples include a major accident, war, assault, or a natural disaster. This type of stress can cause post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Different people may feel stress in different ways. Some people experience digestive symptoms. Others may have headaches, sleeplessness, depressed mood, anger, and irritability. People under chronic stress get more frequent and severe viral infections, such as the flu or common cold. Vaccines, such as the flu shot, are less effective for them. Some people cope with stress more effectively than others. It's important to know your limits when it comes to stress, so you can avoid more serious health effects. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Stroke,https://medlineplus.gov/stroke.html,"Read about stroke (or cerebrovascular accident, CVA). It is an emergency. It happens when blood flow to your brain stops and brain cells start to die."," What is a stroke? A stroke happens when there is a loss of blood flow to part of the brain. Your brain cells cannot get the oxygen and nutrients they need from blood, and they start to die within a few minutes. This can cause lasting brain damage, long-term disability, or even death. If you think that you or someone else is having a stroke, call 911 right away. Immediate treatment may save someone's life and increase the chances for successful rehabilitation and recovery. What are the types of stroke? There are two types of stroke: Ischemic stroke is caused by a blood clot that blocks or plugs a blood vessel in the brain. This is the most common type; about 80% of strokes are ischemic. Hemorrhagic stroke is caused by a blood vessel that breaks and bleeds into the brain Another condition that's similar to a stroke is a transient ischemic attack (TIA). It's sometimes called a ""mini-stroke."" TIAs happen when the blood supply to the brain is blocked for a short time. The damage to the brain cells isn't permanent, but if you have had a TIA, you are at a much higher risk of having a stroke. Who is at risk for a stroke? Certain factors can raise your risk of a stroke. The major risk factors include High blood pressure . This is the primary risk factor for a stroke. Diabetes . Heart diseases . Atrial fibrillation and other heart diseases can cause blood clots that lead to stroke. Smoking . When you smoke, you damage your blood vessels and raise your blood pressure. A personal or family history of stroke or TIA. Age. Your risk of stroke increases as you get older. Race and ethnicity. African Americans have a higher risk of stroke. There are also other factors that are linked to a higher risk of stroke, such as Alcohol and illegal drug use Not getting enough physical activity High cholesterol Unhealthy diet Having obesity What are the symptoms of stroke? The symptoms of stroke often happen quickly. They include Sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm, or leg (especially on one side of the body) Sudden confusion, trouble speaking, or understanding speech Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes Sudden difficulty walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination Sudden severe headache with no known cause If you think that you or someone else is having a stroke, call 911 right away. How are strokes diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will Ask about your symptoms and medical history Do a physical exam, including a check of Your mental alertness Your coordination and balance Any numbness or weakness in your face, arms, and legs Any trouble speaking and seeing clearly Run some tests, which may include Diagnostic imaging of the brain, such as a CT scan or MRI Heart tests , which can help detect heart problems or blood clots that may have led to a stroke. Possible tests include an electrocardiogram (EKG) and an echocardiography. What are the treatments for stroke? Treatments for stroke include medicines, surgery, and rehabilitation. Which treatments you get depend on the type of stroke and the stage of treatment. The different stages are Acute treatment , to try to stop a stroke while it is happening Post-stroke rehabilitation , to overcome the disabilities caused by the stroke Prevention , to prevent a first stroke or, if you have already had one, prevent another stroke Acute treatments for ischemic stroke are usually medicines: You may get tPA, (tissue plasminogen activator), a medicine to dissolve the blood clot. You can only get this medicine within 4 hours of when your symptoms started. The sooner you can get it, the better your chance of recovery. If you cannot get that medicine, you may get medicine that helps stop platelets from clumping together to form blood clots. Or you may get a blood thinner to keep existing clots from getting bigger. If you have carotid artery disease, you may also need a procedure to open your blocked carotid artery Acute treatments for hemorrhagic stroke focus on stopping the bleeding. The first step is to find the cause of bleeding in the brain. The next step is to control it: If high blood pressure is the cause of bleeding, you may be given blood pressure medicines . If an aneurysm if the cause, you may need aneurysm clipping or coil embolization. These are surgeries to prevent further leaking of blood from the aneurysm. It also can help prevent the aneurysm from bursting again. If an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is the cause of a stroke, you may need an AVM repair. An AVM is a tangle of faulty arteries and veins that can rupture within the brain. An AVM repair may be done through Surgery Injecting a substance into the blood vessels of the AVM to block blood flow Radiation to shrink the blood vessels of the AVM Stroke rehabilitation can help you relearn skills you lost because of the damage. The goal is to help you become as independent as possible and to have the best possible quality of life. Prevention of another stroke is also important, since having a stroke increases the risk of getting another one. Prevention may include heart-healthy lifestyle changes and medicines. Can strokes be prevented? If you have already had a stroke or are at risk of having a stroke, you can make some heart-healthy lifestyle changes to try to prevent a future stroke: Eating a heart-healthy diet Aiming for a healthy weight Managing stress Getting regular physical activity Quitting smoking Managing your blood pressure and cholesterol levels If these changes aren't enough, you may need medicine to control your risk factors. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Stroke Rehabilitation,https://medlineplus.gov/strokerehabilitation.html,Strokes can cause lasting brain damage. Find out how stroke rehabilitation can help stroke survivors relearn skills they lose because of the damage., A stroke can cause lasting brain damage. People who survive a stroke need to relearn skills they lost because of the damage. Rehabilitation can help them relearn those skills. The effects of a stroke depend on which area of the brain was damaged. The types of disabilities a stroke can cause include Paralysis or problems controlling movement Pain and other problems with the senses Problems using or understanding language Problems with thinking and memory Emotional disturbances Stroke rehabilitation involves many kinds of health professionals. The goal is to help stroke survivors become as independent as possible and to have the best possible quality of life. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
Stuttering,https://medlineplus.gov/stuttering.html,"Learn about stuttering, or stammering, a speech disorder that affects the flow of your speech. It is more common in children, who often outgrow it."," What is stuttering? Stuttering is a speech disorder . It involves interruptions in the flow of speech. These interruptions are called disfluencies. They may involve Repeating sounds, syllables, or words Stretching out a sound Suddenly stopping in the middle of a syllable or word Sometimes, along with the stuttering, there may be nodding, rapid blinking, or trembling lips. The stuttering may be worse when you are stressed, excited, or tired. Stuttering can be frustrating, because you know exactly what you want to say, but you have trouble saying it. It can make it difficult to communicate with people. This can cause problems with school, work, and relationships. What causes stuttering? There are two main types of stuttering, and they have different causes: Developmental stuttering is the more common type. It starts in young children while they are still learning speech and language skills. Many children stutter when they first start talking. Most of them will outgrow it. But some continue to stutter, and the exact cause is unknown. There are differences in the brains of people who continue to stutter. Genetics may also play a role, since this type of stuttering can run in families. Neurogenic stuttering can happen after someone has a stroke , head trauma , or other type of brain injury . Because of the injury, the brain has trouble coordinating the different parts of the brain involved in speech. Who is at risk for stuttering? Stuttering can affect anyone, but it is much more common in boys than girls. Younger children are most likely to stutter. About 75% of children who stutter will get better. For the rest, stuttering can continue their whole lives. How is stuttering diagnosed? Stuttering is usually diagnosed by a speech-language pathologist. This is a health professional who is trained to test and treat people with voice, speech, and language disorders. If you or your child stutters, your regular health care provider may give you a referral to a speech-language pathologist. Or in some cases, a child's teacher may make a referral. To make a diagnosis, the speech-language pathologist will Look at the case history, such as when the stuttering was first noticed, how often it happens, and in what situations it happens Listen to you or your child speak and analyze the stuttering Evaluate you or your child's speech and language abilities, including the ability to understand and use language Ask about the impact of stuttering on you or your child's life Ask whether stuttering runs in the family For a child, consider how likely it is that he or she will outgrow it What are the treatments for stuttering? There are different treatments that can help with stuttering. Some of these may help one person but not another. You need to work with the speech-language pathologist to figure out the best plan for you or your child. The plan should take into account how long the stuttering has been going on and whether there are any other speech or language problems. For a child, the plan should also take into account your child's age and whether he or she is likely to outgrow the stuttering. Younger children may not need therapy right away. Their parents and teachers can learn strategies to help the child practice speaking. That can help some children. As a parent, it's important to be calm and relaxed when your child is speaking. If your child feels pressured, it can make it harder for them to talk. The speech-language pathologist will probably want to evaluate your child regularly, to see whether treatment is needed. Speech therapy can help children and adults minimize stuttering. Some techniques include Speaking more slowly Controlling breathing Gradually working up from single-syllable responses to longer words and more complex sentences For adults, self-help groups can help you find resources and support as you face the challenges of stuttering. There are electronic devices to help with fluency, but more research is needed to see whether they really help over the long term. Some people have tried medicines that usually treat other health problems such as epilepsy, anxiety, or depression. But these medicines are not approved for stuttering, and they often have side effects. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/suddeninfantdeathsyndrome.html,"Learn how to reduce the risk of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), which is the leading cause of death in children between 1 month and one year old"," Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden, unexplained death of an infant younger than one year old. Some people call SIDS ""crib death"" because many babies who die of SIDS are found in their cribs. SIDS is the leading cause of death in children between one month and one year old. Most SIDS deaths occur when babies are between one month and four months old. Premature babies, boys, African Americans, and American Indian/Alaska Native infants have a higher risk of SIDS. Although the cause of SIDS is unknown, there are steps you can take to reduce the risk. These include Placing your baby on his or her back to sleep, even for short naps. ""Tummy time"" is for when babies are awake and someone is watching Having your baby sleep in your room for at least the first six months. Your baby should sleep close to you, but on a separate surface designed for infants, such as a crib or bassinet. Using a firm sleep surface, such as a crib mattress covered with a fitted sheet Keeping soft objects and loose bedding away from your baby's sleep area Breastfeeding your baby Making sure that your baby doesn't get too hot. Keep the room at a comfortable temperature for an adult. Not smoking during pregnancy or allowing anyone to smoke near your baby NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Suicide,https://medlineplus.gov/suicide.html,"Suicide is the tenth most common cause of death in the United States. Read about the causes and treatment available, including a suicide hotline number"," What is suicide? Suicide is the taking of one's own life. It is a death that happens when someone harms themselves because they want to end their life. A suicide attempt is when someone harms themselves to try to end their life, but they do not die. Suicide is a major public health problem and a leading cause of death in the United States. The effects of suicide go beyond the person who acts to take his or her life. It can also have a lasting effect on family, friends, and communities. Who is at risk for suicide? Suicide does not discriminate. It can touch anyone, anywhere, at any time. But there are certain factors that can contribute to the risk of suicide, including Having attempted suicide before Depression and other mental health disorders Alcohol or drug use disorder Family history of a mental health disorder Family history of an alcohol or drug use disorder Family history of suicide Family violence, including physical or sexual abuse Having guns in the home Being in or having recently gotten out of prison or jail Being exposed to others' suicidal behavior, such as a family member, peer, or celebrity Medical illness, including chronic pain Stressful life event, such as a job loss, financial problems, loss of a loved one, a breakup of a relationship, etc. Being between the ages of 15 and 24 years or over age 60 What are the warning signs for suicide? The warning signs for suicide include Talking about wanting to die or wanting to kill oneself Making a plan or looking for a way to kill oneself, such as searching online Buying a gun or stockpiling pills Feeling empty, hopeless, trapped, or like there's no reason to live Being in unbearable pain Talking about being a burden to others Using more alcohol or drugs Acting anxious or agitated; behaving recklessly Sleeping too little or too much Withdrawing from family or friends or feeling isolated Showing rage or talking about seeking revenge Displaying extreme mood swings Saying good-bye to loved ones, putting affairs in order Some people may tell others about their suicidal thoughts. But others may try to hide them. This can make some of the signs harder to spot. What should I do if I need help or know someone who does? If you or someone you know has the warning signs for suicide, get help right away , especially if there is a change in behavior. If it is an emergency, dial 911. Otherwise there are five steps that you can take: Ask the person if they're thinking about killing themselves Keep them safe. Find out whether they have a plan for suicide and keep them away from things that they can use to kill themselves. Be there with them. Listen carefully and find out what they are thinking and feeling. Help them connect to resources that can help them, such as Calling the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255). Veterans can call and press 1 to reach the Veterans Crisis Line. Texting the Crisis Text Line (text HOME to 741741) Texting the Veterans Crisis Line at 838255 Stay connected. Staying in touch after a crisis can make a difference. NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
Sun Exposure,https://medlineplus.gov/sunexposure.html,You can enjoy the healthy benefits of sun exposure and prevent the unhealthy effects of overexposure to UV rays like sunburn. Just follow these tips.," Ultraviolet (UV) rays are an invisible form of radiation. They can pass through your skin and damage your skin cells. Sunburns are a sign of skin damage. Suntans aren't healthy, either. They appear after the sun's rays have already killed some cells and damaged others. UV rays can cause skin damage during any season or at any temperature. They can also cause eye problems, wrinkles , skin spots, and skin cancer . To protect yourself Stay out of the sun when it is strongest (between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.) Use sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher Wear protective clothing Wear wraparound sunglasses that provide 100% UV ray protection Avoid sunlamps and tanning beds Check your skin regularly for changes in the size, shape, color, or feel of birthmarks, moles, and spots. Such changes are a sign of skin cancer. Food and Drug Administration"
Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/surgery.html,"There are many reasons to have surgery, ranging from pain prevention to body adjustments. However, there are risks associated with it. Read about them"," There are many reasons to have surgery. Some operations can relieve or prevent pain. Others can reduce a symptom of a problem or improve some body function. Some surgeries are done to find a problem. For example, a surgeon may do a biopsy , which involves removing a piece of tissue to examine under a microscope. Some surgeries, like heart surgery , can save your life. Some operations that once needed large incisions (cuts in the body) can now be done using much smaller cuts. This is called laparoscopic surgery. Surgeons insert a thin tube with a camera to see, and use small tools to do the surgery. After surgery there can be a risk of complications, including infection, too much bleeding, reaction to anesthesia , or accidental injury. There is almost always some pain with surgery. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality"
Swallowing Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/swallowingdisorders.html,Trouble swallowing (dysphagia) can happen with a number of neurological disorders. Older adults are at higher risk. Learn about causes and therapies.," If you have a swallowing disorder, you may have difficulty or pain when swallowing. Some people cannot swallow at all. Others may have trouble swallowing liquids, foods, or saliva. This makes it hard to eat. Often, it can be difficult to take in enough calories and fluids to nourish your body. Anyone can have a swallowing disorder, but it is more common in older adults. It often happens because of other conditions, including Nervous system disorders , such as Parkinson's disease and cerebral palsy Problems with your esophagus, including GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) Stroke Head or spinal cord injury Cancer of the head, neck , or esophagus Medicines can help some people, while others may need surgery. Swallowing treatment with a speech-language pathologist can help. You may find it helpful to change your diet or hold your head or neck in a certain way when you eat. In very serious cases, people may need feeding tubes . NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Sweat,https://medlineplus.gov/sweat.html,"Sweating (perspiration) is how your body cools itself. Too much of it is hyperhidrosis, too little is anhidrosis. Find out what is and isn't normal."," Sweat is a clear, salty liquid produced by glands in your skin. Sweating is how your body cools itself. You sweat mainly under your arms and on your feet and palms. When sweat mixes with bacteria on your skin, it can cause a smell. Bathing regularly and using antiperspirants or deodorants can help control the odor. Sweating a lot is normal when it is hot or when you exercise, are anxious, or have a fever. It also happens during menopause. If you often sweat too much, it's called hyperhidrosis. Causes include thyroid or nervous system disorders, low blood sugar, or another health problem. Sweating too little, anhidrosis, can be life-threatening because your body can overheat. Causes of anhidrosis include dehydration, burns, and some skin and nerve disorders."
Syphilis,https://medlineplus.gov/syphilis.html,"Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease. It causes sores on the genitals, rectum, or mouth. Read about testing, prevention, and treatment."," Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by bacteria. It infects the genital area, lips, mouth, or anus of both men and women. You usually get syphilis from sexual contact with someone who has it. It can also pass from mother to baby during pregnancy. The early stage of syphilis usually causes a single, small, painless sore. Sometimes it causes swelling in nearby lymph nodes. If you do not treat it, syphilis usually causes a non-itchy skin rash, often on your hands and feet. Many people do not notice symptoms for years. Symptoms can go away and come back. The sores caused by syphilis make it easier to get or give someone HIV during sex. If you are pregnant, syphilis can cause complications, or you could lose your baby. In rare cases, syphilis causes serious health problems and even death. Syphilis is easy to cure with antibiotics if you catch it early. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading syphilis. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Syringomyelia,https://medlineplus.gov/syringomyelia.html,"In syringomyelia, a cyst forms in your spinal cord. It gets bigger over time, destroying part of the spinal cord. Learn about causes and treatments."," Syringomyelia is a rare disorder that causes a cyst to form in your spinal cord . This cyst, called a syrinx, gets bigger and longer over time, destroying part of the spinal cord. Damage to the spinal cord from the syrinx can cause symptoms such as Pain and weakness in the back, shoulders, arms or legs Headaches Inability to feel hot or cold Symptoms vary according to the size and location of the syrinx. They often begin in early adulthood. Syringomyelia usually results from a skull abnormality called a Chiari I malformation . A tumor, meningitis or physical trauma can also cause it. Surgery is the main treatment. Some people also need to have the syrinx drained. Medicines can help ease pain. In some cases, there are no symptoms, so you may not need treatment."
Tailbone Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/tailbonedisorders.html,"The tailbone, or coccyx, is at the bottom of your backbone, or spine. Learn about tailbone disorders and what problems cause pain in your coccyx. "," The tailbone is the small bone at the bottom of your backbone, or spine. Tailbone disorders include tailbone injuries, pain, infections, cysts and tumors. You rarely break your tailbone. Instead, most injuries cause bruises or pulled ligaments. A backward fall onto a hard surface, such as slipping on ice, is the most common cause of such injuries. Symptoms of various tailbone disorders include pain in the tailbone area, pain upon sitting, pain or numbness in the arms or legs due to pressure on nerves in the tailbone area, and a mass or growth you can see or feel."
Talking With Your Doctor,https://medlineplus.gov/talkingwithyourdoctor.html,One of the benefits of healthcare is being able to talk with your doctor regularly about your concerns. Prepare for your doctor visits with these tips," How well you and your doctor communicate with each other is one of the most important parts of getting good health care. Being prepared can help you make the most of your visit, whether it is in person or through telehealth . Here are some things you can do to make the most of your appointment: Make lists of your concerns, any allergies and all the medicines, herbs, or vitamins you take Write down a description of symptoms - when they started, what makes them better, what makes them worse, etc. Ask a trusted friend or family member to be with you during the appointment Take notes during your appointment Learn how to access your medical records, so you can keep track of test results, diagnoses, treatments plans, and medicines Ask for your doctor's contact information and find out the best way to communicate with him or her Make sure you understand your diagnosis and any treatments. If you don't understand your doctor's responses, ask questions until you do understand. Ask your doctor for written instructions if you need them. Find out where else you can go for further information. NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Tanning,https://medlineplus.gov/tanning.html,"Did you know that a tan is actually sun damage? Learn about the dangers of both indoor and outdoor tanning, and how you can protect your skin."," Can a tan be healthy? Some people think that tanning gives them a healthy glow. But tanning, either outdoors or indoors with a tanning bed, is not healthy at all. It exposes you to harmful rays and puts you at risk for health problems such as melanoma and other skin cancers . What are UV rays, and how do they affect the skin? Sunlight travels to earth as a mixture of both visible and invisible rays. Some of the rays are harmless to people. But one kind, ultraviolet (UV) rays, can cause problems. They are a form of radiation. UV rays do help your body make vitamin D , but too much exposure damages your skin. Most people can get the vitamin D that they need with only about 5 to 15 minutes of sun exposure two to three times a week. There are three types of UV rays. Two of them, UVA and UVB, can reach the earth's surface and affect your skin. Using a tanning bed also exposes you to UVA and UVB. UVB rays can cause sunburn. UVA rays can travel more deeply into the skin than UVB rays. When your skin is exposed to UVA, it tries to protect itself from further damage. It does this by making more melanin, which is the skin pigment that makes your skin darker. That's what gives you a tan. This means that your tan is a sign of skin damage. What are the health risks of tanning? Since tanning means overexposure to UV rays, it can damage your skin and cause health problems such as Premature skin aging , which can cause your skin to become thickened, leathery, and wrinkled. You may also have dark spots on your skin. These happen because long-term exposure to UV rays makes your skin less elastic. The more sun exposure you have, the earlier your skin ages . Skin cancers , including melanoma. This can happen because the UV light damages the DNA of your skin cells and interferes with your body's ability to fight the cancer. Actinic keratosis , a thick, scaly patch of skin that usually forms on areas exposed to the sun, such as the face, scalp, back of the hands, or chest. It can eventually become cancerous. Eye damage , including cataracts and photokeratitis (snow blindness) A weakened immune system , which can increase your sensitivity to sunlight, decrease the effects of vaccines , and cause you to have reactions to certain medicines. What should I do to protect my skin from UV rays? Limit sun exposure . Try to stay out of the sun between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., when its rays are strongest. But remember that you still get sun exposure when you are outside on cloudy days or are in the shade. Use sunscreen with sun protective factor (SPF) 15 or higher. It should also be a broad-spectrum sunscreen, which means that it gives you both UVA and UVB protection. If you have very light skin, use SPF 30 or higher. Apply sunscreen 20-30 minutes before going outside and reapply it at least every 2 hours. Wear sunglasses that block both UVA and UVB rays. Wrap-around sunglasses work best because they block UV rays from sneaking in from the side. Wear a hat . You can get the best protection with a wide-brimmed hat that is made out of a tightly woven fabric, such as canvas. Wear protective clothing such as long-sleeved shirts and long pants and skirts. Clothes made from tightly woven fabric offer the best protection. It is also important to check your skin once a month. If you do see any new or changing spots or moles, go see your health care provider. Isn't indoor tanning safer than tanning in the sun? Indoor tanning is not better than tanning in the sun; it also exposes you to UV rays and damages your skin. Tanning beds use UVA light, so they expose you to a higher concentration of UVA rays than you would get by tanning in the sun. Tanning lights also expose you to some UVB rays. Some people think that getting a ""base tan"" in a tanning salon can protect you when you go in the sun. But a ""base tan"" causes damage to your skin and will not prevent you from getting sunburn when you go outside. Indoor tanning is particularly dangerous for younger people. You have a higher risk of melanoma if you started doing indoor tanning while you were a teen or young adult. Some research shows that frequent tanning may even be addictive. This can be dangerous because the more often you tan, the more damage you do to your skin. Are there safer ways to look tan? There are other ways to look tan, but they are not all safe: Tanning pills have a color additive that turns your skin orange after you take them. But they can be dangerous and are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Sunless tanners have no known risk for skin cancer, but you do have to be careful. Most spray tans, lotions, and gels use DHA, a color additive that makes your skin look tan. DHA is considered safe for use on the outside of your body by the FDA. You need to make sure it doesn't get into your nose, eyes, or mouth. If you use a spray tan, be careful not to breathe in the spray. Also, remember that these ""tans"" do not protect you from UV rays when you go outside."
Taste and Smell Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/tasteandsmelldisorders.html,Taste and smell disorders can have many causes such as colds and head injuries. Some medications can also affect taste and smell.," Our senses of taste and smell give us great pleasure. Taste helps us enjoy food and beverages. Smell lets us enjoy the scents and fragrances like roses or coffee. Taste and smell also protect us, letting us know when food has gone bad or when there is a gas leak. They make us want to eat, ensuring we get the nutrition we need. People with taste disorders may taste things that aren't there, may not be able to tell the difference in tastes, or can't taste at all. People with smell disorders may lose their sense of smell, or things may smell different. A smell they once enjoyed may now smell bad to them. Many illnesses and injuries can cause taste and smell disorders, including colds and head injuries. Some drugs can also affect taste and smell. Most people lose some ability to taste and smell as they get older. Treatment varies, depending on the problem and its cause. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Tay-Sachs Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/taysachsdisease.html,"Tay-Sachs disease is a rare genetic disorder. It causes too much of a fatty substance to build up in the brain, which destroys nerve cells."," Tay-Sachs disease is a rare, inherited disease. It is a type of lipid metabolism disorder . It causes too much of a fatty substance to build up in the brain. This buildup destroys nerve cells, causing mental and physical problems. . Infants with Tay-Sachs disease appear to develop normally for the first few months of life. Then mental and physical abilities decline. The child becomes blind, deaf, and unable to swallow. Muscles begin to waste away and paralysis sets in. Even with the best of care, children with Tay-Sachs disease usually die by age 4. The cause is a gene mutation which is most common in Eastern European Ashkenazi Jews. To get the disease, both parents must have the gene. If they do, there is a 25% chance of the child having the disease. A blood test and prenatal tests can check for the gene or the disease. There is no cure. Medicines and good nutrition can help some symptoms. Some children need feeding tubes. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Tears,https://medlineplus.gov/tears.html,"Your tears clean your eyes and keep them moist. Read about tears and what can go wrong, like too many tears, too few tears, or tear duct problems. "," You may only think of tears as those salty drops that fall from your eyes when you cry. Actually, your tears clean your eyes every time you blink. Tears also keep your eyes moist, which is important for your vision. Tear glands produce tears, and tear ducts carry the tears from the glands to the surface of your eye. Problems with the tear system can include too many tears, too few tears, or problems with the tear ducts. Treatment of the problem depends on the cause."
Teen Depression,https://medlineplus.gov/teendepression.html,"More and more teens in the U.S. have depression. It is a serious medical illness that causes feelings of sadness, hopelessness, and frustration that do not go away. Learn about diagnosis and treatment"," What is depression in teens? Teen depression is a serious medical illness. It's more than just a feeling of being sad or ""blue"" for a few days. It is an intense feeling of sadness, hopelessness, and anger or frustration that lasts much longer. These feelings make it hard for you to function normally and do your usual activities. You may also have trouble focusing and have no motivation or energy. Depression can make you feel like it is hard to enjoy life or even get through the day. What causes depression in teens? Many factors may play a role in depression, including Genetics. Depression can run in families. Brain biology and chemistry. Hormones. Hormone changes can contribute to depression. Stressful childhood events such as trauma, the death of a loved one, bullying , and abuse . Which teens are at risk of depression? Depression can happen at any age, but often begins in the teens or early adulthood. Certain teens are at higher risk of depression, such as those who Have other mental health conditions, such as anxiety , eating disorders , and substance use Have other diseases, such as diabetes , cancer , and heart disease Have family members with mental illness Have a dysfunctional family/family conflict Have problems with friends or other kids at school Have learning problems or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) Have had trauma in childhood Have low self-esteem, a pessimistic outlook, or poor coping skills Are members of the LGBTQ+ community , especially when their families are not supportive What are the symptoms of depression in teens? If you have depression, you have one or more of these symptoms most of the time: Sadness Feeling of emptiness Hopelessness Being angry, irritable, or frustrated, even at minor things You also may also have other symptoms, such as No longer caring about things you used to enjoy Changes in weight - losing weight when you are not dieting or gaining weight from eating too much Changes in sleep - having trouble falling asleep or staying asleep, or sleeping much more than usual Feeling restless or having trouble sitting still Feeling very tired or not having energy Feeling worthless or very guilty Having trouble concentrating, remembering information, or making decisions Thinking about dying or suicide How is depression in teens diagnosed? If you think you might be depressed, tell someone that you trust, such as your Parents or guardian Teacher or counselor Doctor The next step is to see your doctor for a checkup. Your doctor can first make sure that you do not have another health problem that is causing your depression. To do this, you may have a physical exam and lab tests. If you don't have another health problem, you will get a psychological evaluation . Your doctor may do it, or you may be referred to a mental health professional to get one. You may be asked about things such as Your thoughts and feelings How you are doing at school Any changes in your eating, sleeping, or energy level Whether you are suicidal Whether you use alcohol or drugs How is depression in teens treated? Effective treatments for depression in teens include talk therapy, or a combination of talk therapy and medicines: Talk therapy Talk therapy, also called psychotherapy or counseling, can help you understand and manage your moods and feelings. It involves going to see a therapist, such as a psychiatrist, a psychologist, a social worker, or counselor. You can talk out your emotions to someone who understands and supports you. You can also learn how to stop thinking negatively and start to look at the positives in life. This will help you build confidence and feel better about yourself. There are many different types of talk therapy. Certain types have been shown to help teens deal with depression, including Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which helps you to identify and change negative and unhelpful thoughts. It also helps you build coping skills and change behavioral patterns. Interpersonal therapy (IPT), which focuses on improving your relationships. It helps you understand and work through troubled relationships that may contribute to your depression. IPT may help you change behaviors that are causing problems. You also explore major issues that may add to your depression, such as grief or life changes. Medicines In some cases, your doctor will suggest medicines along with talk therapy. There are a few antidepressants that have been widely studied and proven to help teens. If you are taking medicine for depression, it is important to see your doctor regularly. It is also important to know that it will take some time for you to get relief from antidepressants: It can take 3 to 4 weeks until an antidepressant takes effect You may have to try more than one antidepressant to find one that works for you It can also take some time to find the right dose of an antidepressant In some cases, teenagers may have an increase in suicidal thoughts or behavior when taking antidepressants. This risk is higher in the first few weeks after starting the medicine and when the dose is changed. Make sure to tell your parents or guardian if you start feeling worse or have thoughts of hurting yourself. You should not stop taking the antidepressants on your own. You need to work with your doctor to slowly and safely decrease the dose before you stop. Programs for severe depression Some teens who have severe depression or are at risk of hurting themselves may need more intensive treatment. They may go into a psychiatric hospital or do a day program. Both offer counseling, group discussions, and activities with mental health professionals and other patients. Day programs may be full-day or half-day, and they often last for several weeks."
Teen Development,https://medlineplus.gov/teendevelopment.html,"Puberty differs for each teenager. Not only does it affect the body, but it also affects the mental. Find tips to help you manage teen development"," As a teenager, you go through many physical, mental, emotional, and social changes. The biggest change is puberty , the process of becoming sexually mature. It usually happens between ages 10 and 14 for girls and ages 12 and 16 for boys. As your body changes, you may have questions about sexual health . During this time, you start to develop your own unique personality and opinions. Some changes that you might notice include Increased independence from your parents More concerns about body image and clothes More influence from peers Greater ability to sense right and wrong All of these changes can sometimes seem overwhelming. Some sadness or moodiness can be normal. But feeling very sad, hopeless, or worthless could be warning signs of a mental health problem . If you need help, talk to your parents, school counselor, or health care provider. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Teen Health,https://medlineplus.gov/teenhealth.html,"Teenagers go through many changes, primarily when it comes to body image. Read on how incorporating healthy habits can help them feel their best"," As a teenager, you go through many changes. Your body is on its way to becoming its adult size. You may notice that you can't fit into your old shoes or that your jeans are now 3 inches too short. Along with these changes, you are probably becoming more independent and making more of your own choices. Some of the biggest choices you face are about your health. Healthy habits, including eating a healthy diet and being physically active, can help you feel good, look good, and do your best in school, work, or sports. They might also prevent diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, osteoporosis, stroke, and some cancers when you are older."
Teen Mental Health,https://medlineplus.gov/teenmentalhealth.html,"Mental health affects everyone, including teenagers. Seek help if you (or your teenager) exhibit the following signs"," Being a teenager is hard. You're under stress to be liked, do well in school, get along with your family, and make big decisions. You can't avoid most of these pressures, and worrying about them is normal. But feeling very sad, hopeless or worthless could be warning signs of a mental health problem. Mental health problems are real, painful, and sometimes severe. You might need help if you have the signs mentioned above, or if you Often feel very angry or very worried Feel grief for a long time after a loss or death Think your mind is controlled or out of control Use alcohol or drugs Exercise, diet and/or binge-eat obsessively Hurt other people or destroy property Do reckless things that could harm you or others Feel depressed (sad and hopeless) Mental health problems can be treated. To find help, talk to your parents, school counselor, or health care provider."
Teen Sexual Health,https://medlineplus.gov/teensexualhealth.html,"During your teens you go throughpubertyand become sexually mature. Whether you choose to have sex or not, you should know how sex affects your health."," During your teens you go through puberty and become sexually mature. If you're a girl, you develop breasts and begin to get your period . If you're a boy, your penis and testicles become larger. If you have sex, you could get pregnant or get someone pregnant. Whether you choose to have sex or not, it is a good idea to know about safe sex and how sex affects your health. Besides pregnancy , having sex puts you at risk of getting a sexually transmitted disease (STD), such as chlamydia , HPV , or HIV/AIDS The only way to be completely safe is not to have sex. If you do choose to have any kind of sexual contact, latex condoms are the best protection against STDs. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. Condoms are also a form of birth control to help prevent pregnancy."
Teen Violence,https://medlineplus.gov/teenviolence.html,Teen violence refers to harmful behaviors that can start early and continue into young adulthood. Read about violent behavior and what to do about it.," Teen violence refers to harmful behaviors that can start early and continue into young adulthood. The young person can be a victim, an offender, or a witness to the violence. Violent acts can include Bullying Fighting, including punching, kicking, slapping, or hitting Use of weapons such as guns or knives Some violent acts can cause more emotional harm than physical harm. Others can lead to serious injury or even death. An important risk factor for violence in teens is the behavior of their friends and classmates. You should know who your kids hang out with and encourage healthy behavior and relationships. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Teenage Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/teenagepregnancy.html,"Get the facts on teenage pregnancy - how common it is, tips on how to prevent it, and how teenage mothers can have a healthy pregnancy."," Most teenage girls don't plan to get pregnant , but many do. Teen pregnancies carry extra health risks to both the mother and the baby. Often, teens don't get prenatal care soon enough, which can lead to problems later on. They have a higher risk for pregnancy-related high blood pressure and its complications. Risks for the baby include premature birth and a low birth weight . If you're a pregnant teen, you can help yourself and your baby by Getting regular prenatal care Taking your prenatal vitamins for your health and to prevent some birth defects Avoiding smoking, alcohol, and drugs Using a condom, if you are having sex, to prevent sexually transmitted diseases that could hurt your baby. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms."
Telehealth,https://medlineplus.gov/telehealth.html,"Telehealth is the use of communications technologies to provide health care from a distance. Learn about the benefits, problems, and the types of care available using telehealth."," What is telehealth? Telehealth is the use of communications technologies to provide health care from a distance. These technologies may include computers, cameras, videoconferencing, the Internet, and satellite and wireless communications. Some examples of telehealth include A ""virtual visit"" with a health care provider, through a phone call or video chat Remote patient monitoring, which lets your provider check on you while you are at home. For example, you might wear a device that measures your heart rate and sends that information to your provider. A surgeon using robotic technology to do surgery from a different location Sensors that can alert caregivers if a person with dementia leaves the house Sending your provider a message through your electronic health record (EHR) Watching an online video that your provider sent you about how to use an inhaler Getting an email, phone, or text reminder that it's time for a cancer screening What is the difference between telemedicine and telehealth? Sometimes people use the term telemedicine to mean the same thing as telehealth. Telehealth is a broader term. It includes telemedicine. But it also includes things like training for health care providers, health care administrative meetings, and services provided by pharmacists and social workers. What are the benefits of telehealth? Some of the benefits of telehealth include Getting care at home, especially for people who can't easily get to their providers' offices Getting care from a specialist who is not close by Getting care after office hours More communication with your providers Better communication and coordination between health care providers More support for people who are managing their health conditions, especially chronic conditions such as diabetes Lower cost, since virtual visits may be cheaper than in-person visits What are the problems with telehealth? Some of the problems with telehealth include If your virtual visit is with someone who is not your regular provider, he or she may not have all of your medical history After a virtual visit, it may be up to you to coordinate your care with your regular provider In some cases, the provider may not be able to make the right diagnosis without examining you in person. Or your provider may need you to come in for a lab test. There may be problems with the technology, for example, if you lose the connection, there is a problem with the software, etc. Some insurance companies may not cover telehealth visits What types of care can I get using telehealth? The types of care that you can get using telehealth may include General health care, like wellness visits Prescriptions for medicine Dermatology (skin care) Eye exams Nutrition counseling Mental health counseling Urgent care conditions, such as sinusitis , urinary tract infections , common rashes , etc. For telehealth visits, just like with an in-person visit, it is important to be prepared and have good communication with the provider ."
Temporomandibular Joint Dysfunction,https://medlineplus.gov/temporomandibularjointdysfunction.html,The temporomandibular joint connects the jaw and the side of your head so you can talk and chew. Read about problems associated with TMJ dysfunction.," The temporomandibular joint (TMJ) connects your jaw to the side of your head. When it works well, it enables you to talk, chew, and yawn. For people with TMJ dysfunction, problems with the joint and muscles around it may cause Pain that travels through the face, jaw, or neck Stiff jaw muscles Limited movement or locking of the jaw Painful clicking or popping in the jaw A change in the way the upper and lower teeth fit together Jaw pain may go away with little or no treatment. Treatment may include simple things you can do yourself, such as eating soft foods or applying ice packs. It may also include pain medicines or devices to insert in your mouth. In very rare cases, you might need surgery. NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
Tendinitis,https://medlineplus.gov/tendinitis.html,"Do you have pain and soreness around your joint? You could have tendinitis, or swelling of a tendon. Read about who is at risk and how to treat it."," Tendons are flexible bands of tissue that connect muscles to bones. They help your muscles move your bones. Tendinitis is the severe swelling of a tendon. Tendinitis usually happens after repeated injury to an area such as the wrist or ankle. It causes pain and soreness around a joint. Some common forms of tendinitis are named after the sports that increase their risk. They include tennis elbow, golfer's elbow, pitcher's shoulder, swimmer's shoulder, and jumper's knee. Doctors diagnose tendinitis with your medical history, a physical exam, and imaging tests. The first step in treatment is to reduce pain and swelling. Rest, wrapping or elevating the affected area, and medicines can help. Ice is helpful for recent, severe injuries. Other treatments include ultrasound, physical therapy, steroid injections, and surgery."
Testicular Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/testicularcancer.html,"Testicular cancer mainly affects young men between the ages of 20 and 39.Symptoms include pain, swelling, or lumps in your testicles or groin area."," Testicles, or testes, make male hormones and sperm. They are two egg-shaped organs inside the scrotum, the loose sac of skin behind the penis. You can get cancer in one or both testicles. Testicular cancer mainly affects young men between the ages of 20 and 39. It is also more common in men who Have had abnormal testicle development Have had an undescended testicle Have a family history of the cancer Symptoms include pain, swelling, or lumps in your testicles or groin area. Doctors use a physical exam, lab tests, imaging tests, and a biopsy to diagnose testicular cancer. Most cases can be treated, especially if found early. Treatment options include surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy. Regular exams after treatment are important. Treatments may also cause infertility . If you may want children later on, you should consider sperm banking before treatment. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Testicular Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/testiculardisorders.html,Testicular cancer mainly affects young men between the ages of 20 and 39. You can get cancer in one or both testicles. Know what to look out for. ," Testicles, or testes, make male hormones and sperm. They are two egg-shaped organs inside the scrotum, the loose sac of skin behind the penis. It's easy to injure your testicles because they are not protected by bones or muscles. Men and boys should wear athletic supporters when they play sports. You should examine your testicles monthly and seek medical attention for lumps, redness, pain or other changes. Testicles can get inflamed or infected. They can also develop cancer. Testicular cancer is rare and highly treatable. It usually happens between the ages of 15 and 40."
Tetanus,https://medlineplus.gov/tetanus.html,"Avaccinecan prevent tetanus. It is given as a part of routine childhood immunization. Adults should get a tetanus shot, or booster, every 10 years."," Tetanus is a serious illness caused by Clostridium bacteria. The bacteria live in soil, saliva, dust, and manure. The bacteria can enter the body through a deep cut, like those you might get from stepping on a nail, or through a burn. The infection causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over the body. It can lead to ""locking"" of the jaw. This makes it impossible to open your mouth or swallow. Tetanus is a medical emergency. You need to get treatment in a hospital. A vaccine can prevent tetanus. It is given as a part of routine childhood vaccination. Adults should get a tetanus shot, or booster, every 10 years. If you get a bad cut or burn, see your doctor - you may need a booster. Immediate and proper wound care can prevent tetanus infection."
"Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines",https://medlineplus.gov/tetanusdiphtheriaandpertussisvaccines.html,"This page will teach you about combinations of vaccines for tetanus, diphtheria, and whooping cough. Find out who should get which vaccine."," Tetanus , diphtheria , and pertussis (whooping cough) are serious bacterial infections. Tetanus causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over the body. It can lead to ""locking"" of the jaw. Diphtheria usually affects the nose and throat. Whooping cough causes uncontrollable coughing. Vaccines can protect you from these diseases. In the U.S., there are four combination vaccines: DTaP prevents all three diseases. It is for children younger than seven years old. Tdap also prevents all three. It is for older children and adults. DT prevents diphtheria and tetanus. It is for children younger than seven who cannot tolerate the pertussis vaccine. Td prevents diphtheria and tetanus. It is for older children and adults. It is usually given as a booster dose every 10 years. You may also get it earlier if you get a severe and dirty wound or burn. Some people should not get these vaccines, including those who have had severe reactions to the shots before. Check with your doctor first if you have seizures, a neurologic problem, or Guillain-Barre syndrome . Also let your doctor know if you don't feel well the day of the shot; you may need to postpone it. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Thalassemia,https://medlineplus.gov/thalassemia.html,Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders. They affect your ability to make hemoglobin. This can cause anemia. Learn about the types and treatments.," Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders. If you have one, your body makes fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein that carries oxygen to the body. That leads to anemia . Thalassemias occur most often among people of Italian, Greek, Middle Eastern, Southern Asian, and African descent. Thalassemias can be mild or severe. Some people have no symptoms or mild anemia. The most common severe type in the United States is called Cooley's anemia. It usually appears during the first two years of life. People with it may have severe anemia, slowed growth and delayed puberty, and problems with the spleen, liver, heart, or bones. Doctors diagnose thalassemias using blood tests. Treatments include blood transfusions and treatment to remove excess iron from the body. If you have mild symptoms or no symptoms, you may not need treatment. In some severe cases, you may need a bone marrow transplant. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Thoracic Outlet Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/thoracicoutletsyndrome.html,"In thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS), a compressed nerve or blood vessel causes pain in your arm, shoulder, and neck. Read about the types and treatment."," Thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS) causes pain in the shoulder , arm, and neck. It happens when the nerves or blood vessels just below your neck are compressed, or squeezed. The compression can happen between the muscles of your neck and shoulder or between the first rib and collarbone. You may feel burning, tingling, and numbness along your arm, hand, and fingers. If a nerve is compressed, you may also feel weakness in your hand. If a vein is compressed, your hand might be sensitive to cold, or turn pale or bluish. Your arm might swell and tire easily. TOS is more common in women. It usually starts between 20 and 50 years of age. Doctors do nerve and imaging studies to diagnose it. There are many causes of TOS, including Injury Anatomical defects Tumors that press on nerves Poor posture that causes nerve compression Pregnancy Repetitive arm and shoulder movements and activity, such as from playing certain sports Treatment depends on what caused your TOS. Medicines, physical therapy, and relaxation might help. Surgery may also be an option. Most people recover. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Throat Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/throatcancer.html,"Throat cancer has different names, depending on what part of the throat is affected (such as oropharynx). Learn the different symptoms and treatments."," Throat cancer is a type of head and neck cancer . Throat cancer has different names, depending on which part of the throat is affected. The different parts of your throat are called the oropharynx, the hypopharynx, the nasopharynx, and the larynx, or voice box. The main risk factors for throat cancer are using tobacco heavy drinking. Certain types of throat cancer also have other risk factors. For example, having HPV is a risk factor for oropharyngeal cancer. Symptoms of throat cancer may include A sore throat that does not go away A lump in the neck Pain or ringing in the ears Trouble swallowing Ear pain To diagnose throat cancers, doctors may do a physical exam and history, imaging tests, and a biopsy. You may also need other tests, depending on the type of cancer. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Treatment for some types of throat cancer may also include targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Throat Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/throatdisorders.html,Throat problems are common and are usually caused by a viral infection. Learn more about problems that affect the throat.," Your throat is a tube that carries food to your esophagus and air to your windpipe and larynx. The technical name for your throat is the pharynx. Throat problems are common. You've probably had a sore throat . The cause is usually a viral infection, but other causes include allergies, infection with strep bacteria or the leaking of stomach acids back up into the esophagus, called GERD . Other problems that affect the throat include Tonsillitis - inflammation of the tonsils Cancer Croup - inflammation, usually in small children, which causes a barking cough Laryngitis - swelling of the voice box, which can cause a hoarse voice or loss of voice Most throat problems are minor and go away on their own. Treatments, when needed, depend on the problem."
Thymus Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/thymuscancer.html,"Thymus Cancer (thymoma) is rare. Symptoms include a cough that doesnt go away, chest pain, and trouble breathing. Explore your treatment options."," The thymus is a small organ in your upper chest, under your breastbone. Before birth and during childhood, the thymus helps the body make a type of white blood cell. These cells help protect you from infections. Cancer of the thymus is rare. You are more likely to get it if you have other diseases such as myasthenia gravis, lupus or rheumatoid arthritis. Sometimes there are no symptoms. Other times, thymus cancer can cause A cough that doesn't go away Chest pain Trouble breathing Doctors use a physical exam, imaging tests, and a biopsy to diagnose thymus cancer. The most common treatment is surgery to remove the tumor. Other options include radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and hormone therapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Thyroid Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/thyroidcancer.html,Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck. There are several thyroid cancer types with different treatments. Discover options available.," Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your collarbone. It makes hormones that help the body work normally. There are several types of cancer of the thyroid gland. You are at greater risk if you Are between ages 25 and 65 Are a woman Are Asian Have a family member who has had thyroid disease Have had radiation treatments to your head or neck You should see a doctor if you have a lump or swelling in your neck. Doctors use a physical exam, thyroid tests , other blood and imaging tests, and a biopsy to diagnose thyroid cancer. Treatment depends on the type of cancer you have and how far the cancer has spread. Many patients receive a combination of treatments. They may include surgery, radioactive iodine, hormone treatment, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Thyroid Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/thyroiddiseases.html,"The thyroid is a gland in the neck. The thyroid gland creates hormones that affect metabolism. Learn about thyroid diseases, such as hypothyroidism."," Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your collarbone. It is one of your endocrine glands, which make hormones. Thyroid hormones control the rate of many activities in your body. These include how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. All of these activities are your body's metabolism. Thyroid problems include Goiter - enlargement of the thyroid gland Hyperthyroidism - when your thyroid gland makes more thyroid hormones than your body needs Hypothyroidism - when your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormones Thyroid cancer Thyroid nodules - lumps in the thyroid gland Thyroiditis - swelling of the thyroid To diagnose thyroid diseases, doctors use a medical history, physical exam, and thyroid tests . They sometimes also use a biopsy. Treatment depends on the problem, but may include medicines, radioiodine therapy, or thyroid surgery. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Thyroid Tests,https://medlineplus.gov/thyroidtests.html,The thyroid is a gland in your neck that makes hormones. Read about blood and imaging tests that doctors use to diagnose and monitor thyroid diseases.," Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your collarbone. It is one of your endocrine glands, which make hormones. Thyroid hormones control the rate of many activities in your body. They include how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. Thyroid tests check how well your thyroid is working. They are also used to diagnose and help find the cause of thyroid diseases such as hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism . Thyroid tests include blood tests and imaging tests. Blood tests for your thyroid include TSH - measures thyroid-stimulating hormone. It is the most accurate measure of thyroid activity. T3 and T4 - measure different thyroid hormones. TSI - measures thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin. Antithyroid antibody test - measures antibodies (markers in the blood). Imaging tests include CT scans, ultrasound, and nuclear medicine tests. One type of nuclear medicine test is the thyroid scan. It uses small amounts of radioactive material to create a picture of the thyroid, showing its size, shape, and position. It can help find the cause of hyperthyroidism and check for thyroid nodules (lumps in the thyroid). Another nuclear test is the radioactive iodine uptake test, or thyroid uptake test. It checks how well your thyroid is working and can help find the cause of hyperthyroidism. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Tick Bites,https://medlineplus.gov/tickbites.html,One tiny tick bite can cause serious but treatable diseases such as Lyme or babesiosis. Follow these tips to avoid being a tick's next meal.," If you spend time outdoors or have pets that go outdoors, you need to beware of ticks. Ticks are small bloodsucking parasites. Many species transmit diseases to animals and people. Some of the diseases you can get from a tick bite are Lyme disease , ehrlichiosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever and tularemia. Some ticks are so small that they can be difficult to see. Ticks may get on you if you walk through areas where they live, such as tall grass, leaf litter or shrubs. Tick-borne diseases occur worldwide, including in your own backyard. To help protect yourself and your family, you should Use a chemical repellent with DEET, permethrin or picaridin Wear light-colored protective clothing Tuck pant legs into socks Avoid tick-infested areas Check yourself, your children and your pets daily for ticks and carefully remove any ticks you find"
Tinea Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/tineainfections.html,Tinea are skin diseases caused by fungus like ringworm or jock itch. Some are treated with over the counter items and others require prescription.," Tinea is the name of a group of diseases caused by a fungus. Types of tinea include ringworm, athlete's foot and jock itch. These infections are usually not serious, but they can be uncomfortable. You can get them by touching an infected person, from damp surfaces such as shower floors, or even from a pet. Symptoms depend on the affected area of the body: Ringworm is a red skin rash that forms a ring around normal-looking skin. A worm doesn't cause it. Scalp ringworm causes itchy, red patches on your head. It can leave bald spots. It usually affects children. Athlete's foot causes itching, burning and cracked skin between your toes. Jock itch causes an itchy, burning rash in your groin area. Over-the-counter creams and powders will get rid of many tinea infections, particularly athlete's foot and jock itch. Other cases require prescription medicine."
Tinnitus,https://medlineplus.gov/tinnitus.html,"Tinnitus is often described as a ringing in the ears, but it can also sound like roaring, hissing, or buzzing. There are many causes. Read the list."," Tinnitus is often described as a ringing in the ears. It also can sound like roaring, clicking, hissing, or buzzing. It may be soft or loud, high pitched or low pitched. You might hear it in either one or both ears. Millions of Americans have tinnitus. People with severe tinnitus may have trouble hearing, working or even sleeping. Causes of tinnitus include Hearing loss in older people Exposure to loud noises Ear and sinus infections Heart or blood vessel problems Meniere's disease Brain tumors Hormonal changes in women Thyroid problems Certain medicines Treatment depends on the cause. Treatments may include hearing aids, sound-masking devices, medicines, and ways to learn how to cope with the noise. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Toddler Development,https://medlineplus.gov/toddlerdevelopment.html,It is exciting to watch your toddler learn new skills. Toddlers do not develop at the same rate. Learn more about what to expect.," Mastering new skills such as how to walk, talk, and use the potty are developmental milestones. It is exciting to watch your toddler learn new skills. The normal development of children aged 1-3 includes several areas: Gross motor - walking, running, climbing Fine motor - feeding themselves, drawing Sensory - seeing, hearing, tasting, touching, and smelling Language - saying single words, then sentences Social - playing with others, taking turns, doing fantasy play Toddlers do not develop at the same rate. There is a wide range of what is considered ""normal."" Your child may be ahead in some areas and slightly behind in others. If you are worried about possible delays, talk to your child's health care provider."
Toddler Health,https://medlineplus.gov/toddlerhealth.html,This page will teach you about toddler health. Learn about common warning signs of sickness and what to expect from routine health exams.," Most young children get sick. It is hard for parents to know what is serious. You can learn what the common warning signs are. In the end, trust your intuition. If you are worried about your toddler, call your health care provider right away. Well-child visits are important to your toddler's health. Toddlers will get their recommended vaccines during these visits. Routine exams and screenings help you and your kids prevent and treat health problems as well as chart their growth and development ."
Toddler Nutrition,https://medlineplus.gov/toddlernutrition.html,Food provides nutrients a young child needs to be healthy. You are the most important influence on your child when it comes to diet. Learn more.," Food provides the energy and nutrients that young children need to be healthy. Toddlers are learning to feed themselves and to eat new foods. They should eat a variety of foods from all of the food groups. Each day, toddlers need enough nutrients, including 7 milligrams of iron 700 milligrams of calcium 600 IU of vitamin D"
Toe Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/toeinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Toe injuries and disorders include turf toe, bunions, sprains, fractures, and ingrown toenails. Read up on what causes toe pain and what can treat it."," Fourteen of the 26 bones in your feet are in your toes. The toes, particularly your big toe, help you move and keep your balance. Playing sports, running, stubbing your toe, and dropping something on your foot can damage your toes. Wearing shoes that are too loose or too tight can also cause toe problems. Certain diseases, such as severe arthritis, can cause toe problems and pain. Gout often causes pain in the big toe. Common toe problems include Corns and bunions Ingrown toenails Sprains and dislocations Fractures (broken bones) Treatments for toe injuries and disorders vary. They might include shoe inserts or special shoes, padding, taping, medicines, rest, and in severe cases, surgery."
Tongue Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/tonguedisorders.html,"Your tongue helps you taste, swallow, and chew. You also use it to speak.Problems with the tongue can have many different causes. Learn more."," Your tongue helps you taste, swallow, and chew. You also use it to speak. Your tongue is made up of many muscles. The upper surface contains your taste buds. Problems with the tongue include Pain Swelling Changes in color or texture Abnormal movement or difficulty moving the tongue Taste problems These problems can have many different causes. Treatment depends on the underlying problem."
Tonsillitis,https://medlineplus.gov/tonsillitis.html,"Tonsillitis is an inflammation (swelling) of the tonsils. Learn the causes, symptoms, and treatment options for tonsillitis."," What are tonsils? Tonsils are lumps of tissue at the back of the throat. There are two of them, one on each side. Along with the adenoids , tonsils are part of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system clears away infection and keeps body fluids in balance. Tonsils and adenoids work by trapping the germs coming in through the mouth and nose. What is tonsillitis? Tonsillitis is an inflammation (swelling) of the tonsils. Sometimes along with tonsillitis, the adenoids are also swollen. What causes tonsillitis? The cause of tonsillitis is usually a viral infection. Bacterial infections such as strep throat can also cause tonsillitis. Who is at risk for tonsillitis? Tonsillitis is most common in children over age two. Almost every child in the United States gets it at least once. Tonsillitis caused by bacteria is more common in kids ages 5-15. Tonsillitis caused by a virus is more common in younger children. Adults can get tonsillitis, but it is not very common. Is tonsillitis contagious? Although tonsillitis is not contagious, the viruses and bacteria that cause it are contagious. Frequent handwashing can help prevent spreading or catching the infections. What are the symptoms of tonsillitis? The symptoms of tonsillitis include A sore throat , which may be severe Red, swollen tonsils Trouble swallowing A white or yellow coating on the tonsils Swollen glands in the neck Fever Bad breath When does my child need to see a health care provider for tonsillitis? You should call your health care provider if your child Has a sore throat for more than two days Has trouble or pain when swallowing Feels very sick or very weak You should get emergency care right away if your child Has trouble breathing Starts drooling Has a lot of trouble swallowing How is tonsillitis diagnosed? To diagnose tonsillitis, your child's health care provider will first ask you about your child's symptoms and medical history. The provider will look at your child's throat and neck, checking for things such as redness or white spots on the tonsils and swollen lymph nodes. Your child will probably also have one or more tests to check for strep throat, since it can cause tonsillitis and it requires treatment. It could be a rapid strep test, a throat culture, or both. For both tests, the provider uses a cotton swab to collect a sample of fluids from your child's tonsils and the back of the throat. With the rapid strep test, testing is done in the office, and you get the results within minutes. The throat culture is done in a lab, and it usually takes a few days to get the results. The throat culture is a more reliable test. So sometimes if the rapid strep test is negative (meaning that it does not show any strep bacteria), the provider will also do a throat culture just to make sure that your child does not have strep. What are the treatments for tonsillitis? Treatment for tonsillitis depends on the cause. If the cause is a virus, there is no medicine to treat it. If the cause is a bacterial infection, such as strep throat, your child will need to take antibiotics . It is important for your child to finish the antibiotics even if he or she feels better. If treatment stops too soon, some bacteria may survive and re-infect your child. No matter what is causing the tonsillitis, there are some things you can do to help your child feel better. Make sure that your child Gets a lot of rest Drinks plenty of fluids Tries eating soft foods if it hurts to swallow Tries eating warm liquids or cold foods like popsicles to soothe the throat Isn't around cigarette smoke or do anything else that could irritate the throat Sleeps in a room with a humidifier Gargles with saltwater Sucks on a lozenge (but do not give them to children under four; they can choke on them) Takes an over-the-counter pain reliever such as acetaminophen. Children and teenagers should not take aspirin. In some cases, your child may need a tonsillectomy. What is a tonsillectomy and why might my child need one? A tonsillectomy is surgery to remove the tonsils. Your child might need it if he or she Keeps getting tonsillitis Has bacterial tonsillitis that does not get better with antibiotics Has tonsils are too big, and are causing trouble breathing or swallowing Your child usually gets the surgery and goes home later that day. Very young children and people who have complications may need to stay in the hospital overnight. It can take a week or two before your child completely recovers from the surgery."
Tooth Decay,https://medlineplus.gov/toothdecay.html,You call it a cavity. Your dentist calls it tooth decay or dental caries. They're all names for a hole in your tooth. Find out how to prevent it.," What is tooth decay? Tooth decay is damage to a tooth's surface, or enamel. It happens when bacteria in your mouth make acids that attack the enamel. Tooth decay can lead to cavities (dental caries), which are holes in your teeth. If tooth decay is not treated, it can cause pain, infection, and even tooth loss. What causes tooth decay? Our mouths are full of bacteria. Some bacteria are helpful. But some can be harmful, including the ones that play a role in tooth decay. These bacteria combine with food to form a soft, sticky film called plaque. The bacteria in plaque use the sugar and starch in what you eat and drink to make acids. The acids begin to eat away at the minerals on your enamel. Over time, the plaque can harden into tartar. Besides damaging your teeth, plaque and tartar can also irritate your gums and cause gum disease . You get fluoride from toothpaste, water, and other sources. This fluoride, along with your salvia, helps the enamel repair itself by replacing the minerals. Your teeth go through this natural process of losing minerals and regaining minerals all day long. But if you don't take care of your teeth and/or you eat and drink lots of sugary or starchy things, your enamel will keep losing minerals. This leads to tooth decay. A white spot may appear where minerals have been lost. This is an early sign of tooth decay. You may be able to stop or reverse the decay at this point. Your enamel can still repair itself, if you take better care of your teeth and limit sugary/starchy foods and drinks. But if the tooth decay process continues, more minerals are lost. Over time, the enamel is weakened and destroyed, forming a cavity. A cavity is a hole in your tooth. It is permanent damage that a dentist has to repair with a filling. Who is at risk for tooth decay? The main risk factors for tooth decay are not taking care of your teeth and having too many sugary or starchy foods and drinks. Some people have a higher risk of tooth decay, including people who Don't have enough saliva, because of medicines, certain diseases, or some cancer treatments Don't get enough fluoride Are very young. Babies and toddlers who drink from bottles are at risk, especially if they are given juice or get bottles at bedtime. This exposes their teeth to sugars for long periods of time. Are older. Many older adults have receding gums and more wear on their teeth. These raise the risk of decay on the exposed root surfaces of their teeth. What are the symptoms of tooth decay and cavities? In early tooth decay, you usually don't have symptoms. As tooth decay gets worse, it can cause A toothache (tooth pain) Tooth sensitivity to sweets, hot, or cold White or brown stains on the surface of a tooth A cavity An infection, which can lead to an abscess (pocket of pus) forming. The abscess can cause pain, facial swelling, and fever. How are tooth decay and cavities diagnosed? Dentists usually find tooth decay and cavities by looking at your teeth and probing them with dental instruments. Your dentist will also ask if you have any symptoms. Sometimes you may need a dental x-ray. What are the treatments for tooth decay and cavities? There are several treatments for tooth decay and cavities. Which treatment you get depends on how bad the problem is: Fluoride treatments. If you have early tooth decay, a fluoride treatment can help the enamel to repair itself. Fillings. If you have a typical cavity, your dentist will remove the decayed tooth tissue and then restore the tooth by filling it with a filling material. Root canal. If the damage to the tooth and/or an infection spreads to the pulp (inside of the tooth), you might need a root canal. Your dentist will remove the decayed pulp and clean inside the tooth and root. The next step is to fill the tooth with a temporary filling. Then you will need to come back to get a permanent filling or a crown (a cover on the tooth). Extraction (pulling the tooth). In the most severe cases, when the damage to the pulp cannot be fixed, your dentist may pull the tooth. Your dentist will suggest that you get a bridge or implant to replace the missing tooth. Otherwise, the teeth next to the gap may move over and change your bite. Can tooth decay be prevented? There are steps that you can take to prevent tooth decay: Make sure that you get enough fluoride by Brushing with a fluoride toothpaste Drinking tap water with fluoride. Most bottled water does not contain fluoride. Using fluoride mouth rinse Practice good oral health by brushing your teeth twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste and regularly flossing your teeth Make smart food choices by limiting foods and drinks that are high in sugars and starches. Eat nutritious, balanced meals and limit snacking. Do not use tobacco products, including smokeless tobacco . If you currently use tobacco, consider quitting . See a dentist for regular check-ups and professional cleanings Make sure that your children get sealants on their teeth. Dental sealants are thin plastic coatings that protect the chewing surfaces of the back teeth. Children should get sealants on their back teeth as soon as they come in, before decay can attack the teeth. NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research"
Tooth Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/toothdisorders.html,"There are a variety of problems associated with tooth disorders such ascavities and infections. Uncover the related symptoms, such as a toothache."," What are teeth? Your teeth are made of a hard, bonelike material. There are four parts: Enamel, your tooth's hard surface Dentin, the hard yellow part under the enamel Cementum, the hard tissue that covers the root and keeps your teeth in place Pulp, the soft connective tissue in the center of your tooth. It contains nerves and blood vessels. You need your teeth for many activities that you may take for granted. These include eating, speaking and even smiling. What are tooth disorders? There are many different problems that can affect your teeth, including Tooth decay - damage to a tooth's surface, which can lead to cavities Abscess - a pocket of pus, caused by a tooth infection Impacted tooth - a tooth did not erupt (break through the gum) when it should have. It is usually wisdom teeth that are impacted, but it can sometimes happen to other teeth. Misaligned teeth (malocclusion) Tooth injuries such as broken or chipped teeth What causes tooth disorders? The causes of tooth disorders varies, depending on the problem. Sometimes the cause is not taking good care of your teeth. In other cases, you may have been born with the problem or the cause is an accident. What are the symptoms of tooth disorders? The symptoms can vary, depending on the problem. Some of the more common symptoms include Abnormal color or shape of the tooth Tooth pain Worn-down teeth How are tooth disorders diagnosed? Your dentist will ask about your symptoms, look at your teeth, and probe them with dental instruments. In some cases, you may need dental x-rays. What are the treatments for tooth disorders? The treatment will depend on the problem. Some common treatments are Fillings for cavities Root canals for cavities or infections that affect the pulp (inside of the tooth) Extractions (pulling teeth) for teeth that are impacted and causing problems or are too damaged to be fixed. You may also have a tooth or teeth pulled because of overcrowding in your mouth. Can tooth disorders be prevented? The main thing that you can do to prevent tooth disorders is to take good care of your teeth : Brush your teeth twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste Clean between your teeth every day with floss or another type of between-the-teeth cleaner Limit sugary snacks and drinks Don't smoke or chew tobacco See your dentist or oral health professional regularly"
Tornadoes,https://medlineplus.gov/tornadoes.html,"Although there are no guarantees of safety during a tornado, you can take actions to protect yourself. Read about what you can do."," Tornadoes are nature's most violent storms. They are rotating, funnel-shaped clouds that extend from a thunderstorm to the ground. Their whirling winds can reach 300 miles per hour. They can strike quickly with little or no warning, devastate a neighborhood in seconds, and leave a path of damage over a mile wide and 50 miles long. Tornadoes can also accompany tropical storms and hurricanes as they move onto land. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a tornado, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Tourette Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/tourettesyndrome.html,"Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neurologic disorder, mostly in children. It causes tics - involuntary, unusual movements or sounds. Learn what can help."," If you have Tourette syndrome, you make unusual movements or sounds, called tics. You have little or no control over them. Common tics are throat-clearing and blinking. You may repeat words, spin, or, rarely, blurt out swear words. Tourette syndrome is a disorder of the nervous system. It often occurs with other problems, such as Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Anxiety Depression The cause of Tourette syndrome is unknown. It is more common in boys than girls. The tics usually start in childhood and may be worst in the early teens. Many people eventually outgrow them. No treatment is needed unless the tics interfere with everyday life. Excitement or worry can make tics worse. Calm, focused activities may make them better. Medicines and talk therapy may also help. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Toxoplasmosis,https://medlineplus.gov/toxoplasmosis.html,Toxoplasmosis is a disease caused by a common parasite. Most people with toxoplasmosis don't need treatment. Read about who is at risk.," Toxoplasmosis is a disease caused by the parasite Toxoplasma gondii. More than 60 million people in the U.S. have the parasite. Most of them don't get sick. But the parasite causes serious problems for some people. These include people with weak immune systems and babies whose mothers become infected for the first time during pregnancy. Problems can include damage to the brain, eyes, and other organs. You can get toxoplasmosis from Waste from an infected cat Eating contaminated meat that is raw or not well cooked Using utensils or cutting boards after they've had contact with contaminated raw meat Drinking infected water Receiving an infected organ transplant or blood transfusion Most people with toxoplasmosis don't need treatment. There are drugs to treat it for pregnant women and people with weak immune systems. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Tracheal Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/trachealdisorders.html,Problems with the trachea (windpipe) include narrowing and inflammation. You may need a tracheostomy to help you breathe. Learn about these disorders.," Your trachea, or windpipe, is one part of your airway system. Airways are pipes that carry oxygen-rich air to your lungs. They also carry carbon dioxide, a waste gas, out of your lungs. When you inhale, air travels from your nose, through your larynx, and down your windpipe. The windpipe splits into two bronchi that enter your lungs. Problems with the trachea include narrowing, inflammation, and some inherited conditions. You may need a procedure called a tracheostomy to help you breathe if you have swallowing problems, or have conditions that affect coughing or block your airways. You might also need a tracheostomy if you are in critical care and need to be on a breathing machine. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Transient Ischemic Attack,https://medlineplus.gov/transientischemicattack.html,"Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a mini stroke. Even though the symptoms come and go, learn why TIA needs medical attention right away."," A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that lasts only a few minutes. It happens when the blood supply to part of the brain is briefly blocked. Symptoms of a TIA are like other stroke symptoms, but do not last as long. They happen suddenly, and include Numbness or weakness, especially on one side of the body Confusion or trouble speaking or understanding speech Trouble seeing in one or both eyes Difficulty walking Dizziness Loss of balance or coordination Most symptoms of a TIA disappear within an hour, although they may last for up to 24 hours. Because you cannot tell if these symptoms are from a TIA or a stroke, you should go to the hospital right away. TIAs are often a warning sign for future strokes . Taking medicine, such as blood thinners , may reduce your risk of a stroke. Your doctor might also recommend surgery. You can also help lower your risk by having a healthy lifestyle . This includes not smoking, not drinking too much, eating a healthy diet, and exercising. It is also important to control other health problems, such as high blood pressure and cholesterol . NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Traumatic Brain Injury,https://medlineplus.gov/traumaticbraininjury.html,"Traumatic brain injury or TBI happens when a bump, blow, or other head injury causes damage to the brain. Treatment and outcome depend on how severe."," What is traumatic brain injury (TBI)? Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a sudden injury that causes damage to the brain. It may happen when there is a blow, bump, or jolt to the head. This is a closed head injury. A TBI can also happen when an object penetrates the skull. This is a penetrating injury. Symptoms of a TBI can be mild, moderate, or severe. Concussions are a type of mild TBI. The effects of a concussion can sometimes be serious, but most people completely recover in time. More severe TBI can lead to serious physical and psychological symptoms, coma , and even death. What causes traumatic brain injury (TBI)? The main causes of TBI depend on the type of head injury : Some of the common causes of a closed head injury include Falls . This is the most common cause in adults age 65 and older. Motor vehicle crashes. This is the most common cause in young adults. Sports injuries Being struck by an object Child abuse . This is the most common cause in children under age 4. Blast injuries due to explosions Some of the common causes of a penetrating injury include Being hit by a bullet or shrapnel Being hit by a weapon such as a hammer, knife, or baseball bat A head injury that causes a bone fragment to penetrate the skull Some accidents such as explosions, natural disasters, or other extreme events can cause both closed and penetrating TBI in the same person. Who is at risk for traumatic brain injury (TBI)? Certain groups are at higher risk of TBI: Men are more likely to get a TBI than women. They are also more likely to have serious TBI. Adults aged 65 and older are at the greatest risk for being hospitalized and dying from a TBI What are the symptoms of traumatic brain injury (TBI)? The symptoms of TBI depend on the type of injury and how serious the brain damage is. The symptoms of mild TBI can include A brief loss of consciousness in some cases. However, many people with mild TBI remain conscious after the injury. Headache Confusion Lightheadedness Dizziness Blurred vision or tired eyes Ringing in the ears Bad taste in the mouth Fatigue or lethargy A change in sleep patterns Behavioral or mood changes Trouble with memory, concentration, attention, or thinking If you have a moderate or severe TBI, you may have those same symptoms. You may also have other symptoms such as A headache that gets worse or does not go away Repeated vomiting or nausea Convulsions or seizures Not being able to wake up from sleep Larger than normal pupil (dark center) of one or both eyes. This is called dilation of the pupil. Slurred speech Weakness or numbness in the arms and legs Loss of coordination Increased confusion, restlessness, or agitation How is traumatic brain injury (TBI) diagnosed? If you have a head injury or other trauma that may have caused a TBI, you need to get medical care as soon as possible. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will ask about your symptoms and the details of your injury Will do a neurologic exam May do imaging tests , such as a CT scan or MRI May use a tool such as the Glasgow coma scale to determine how severe the TBI is. This scale measures your ability to open your eyes, speak, and move. May do neuropsychological tests to check how your brain is functioning What are the treatments for traumatic brain injury (TBI)? The treatments for TBI depend on many factors, including the size, severity, and location of the brain injury. For mild TBI , the main treatment is rest. If you have a headache, you can try taking over-the-counter pain relievers . It is important to follow your health care provider's instructions for complete rest and a gradual return to your normal activities. If you start doing too much too soon, it may take longer to recover. Contact your provider if your symptoms are not getting better or if you have new symptoms. For moderate to severe TBI , the first thing health care providers will do is stabilize you to prevent further injury. They will manage your blood pressure, check the pressure inside your skull, and make sure that there is enough blood and oxygen getting to your brain. Once you are stable, the treatments may include Surgery to reduce additional damage to your brain, for example to Remove hematomas (clotted blood) Get rid of damaged or dead brain tissue Repair skull fractures Relieve pressure in the skull Medicines to treat the symptoms of TBI and to lower some of the risks associated with it, such as Anti-anxiety medication to lessen feelings of nervousness and fear Anticoagulants to prevent blood clots Anticonvulsants to prevent seizures Antidepressants to treat symptoms of depression and mood instability Muscle relaxants to reduce muscle spasms Stimulants to increase alertness and attention Rehabilitation therapies , which can include therapies for physical, emotional, and cognitive difficulties: Physical therapy, to build physical strength, coordination, and flexibility Occupational therapy, to help you learn or relearn how to perform daily tasks, such as getting dressed, cooking, and bathing Speech therapy, to help you to with speech and other communication skills and treat swallowing disorders Psychological counseling, to help you learn coping skills, work on relationships, and improve your emotional well-being Vocational counseling, which focuses on your ability to return to work and deal with workplace challenges Cognitive therapy, to improve your memory, attention, perception, learning, planning, and judgment Some people with TBI may have permanent disabilities . A TBI can also put you at risk for other health problems such as anxiety , depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder . Treating these problems can improve your quality of life. Can traumatic brain injury (TBI) be prevented? There are steps you can take to prevent head injuries and TBIs: Always wear your seatbelt and use car seats and booster seats for children Never drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol Wear a properly fitting helmet when riding a bicycle, skateboarding, and playing sports like hockey and football Prevent falls by Making your house safer. For example, you can install railings on the stairs and grab bars in the tub, get rid of tripping hazards, and use window guards and stair safety gates for young children. Improving your balance and strength with regular physical activity"
Traveler's Health,https://medlineplus.gov/travelershealth.html,Traveling can increase your chances of getting sick. Learn what you need to do to protect yourself before you take off and during your trip.," Traveling can increase your chances of getting sick. A long flight can increase your risk for deep vein thrombosis. Once you arrive, it takes time to adjust to the water, food, and air in another place. Water in developing countries can contain viruses , bacteria , and parasites that cause stomach upset and diarrhea. Be safe by using only bottled or purified water for drinking, making ice cubes, and brushing your teeth. If you use tap water, boil it or use iodine tablets. Food poisoning can also be a risk. Eat only food that is fully cooked and served hot. Avoid unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables. If you are traveling out of the country, you might also need vaccinations or medicines to prevent specific illnesses. Which ones you need will depend on what part of the world you're visiting, the time of year, your age, overall health status, and previous vaccinations. See your doctor 4 to 6 weeks before your trip. Most vaccines take time to become effective. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Tremor,https://medlineplus.gov/tremor.html,"Tremors are unintentional trembling or shaking movements in one or more parts of the body. Read about the types, such as essential tremor, and causes."," What is a tremor? A tremor is a rhythmic shaking movement in one or more parts of your body. It is involuntary, meaning that you cannot control it. This shaking happens because of muscle contractions. A tremor is most often in your hands, but it could also affect your arms, head, vocal cords, trunk, and legs. It may come and go, or it may be constant. Tremor can happen on its own or be caused by another disorder. What are the types of tremor? There are several types of tremor, including Essential tremor , sometimes called benign essential tremor. This is the most common type. It usually affects your hands, but it can also affect your head, voice, tongue, legs, and trunk. Parkinsonian tremor , which is a common symptom in people who have Parkinson's disease . It is usually affects one or both hands when they are at rest, but it can affect the chin, lips, face, and legs. Dystonic tremor , which happens in people who have dystonia . Dystonia is a movement disorder in which you have involuntary muscle contractions. The contractions cause you to have twisting and repetitive movements. It can affect any muscle in the body. What causes tremor? Generally, tremor is caused by a problem in the deep parts of the brain that control movements. For most types, the cause is unknown. Some types are inherited and run in families. There can also be other causes, such as Neurologic disorders , including multiple sclerosis , Parkinson's disease, stroke , and traumatic brain injury Certain medicines, such as asthma medicines, amphetamines, caffeine , corticosteroids , and medicines used for certain psychiatric and neurological disorders Alcohol use disorder or alcohol withdrawal Mercury poisoning Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) Liver or kidney failure Anxiety or panic Who is at risk for tremor? Anyone can get tremor, but it is most common in middle-aged and older adults. For certain types, having a family history raises your risk of getting it. What are the symptoms of tremor? Symptoms of tremor may include Rhythmic shaking in the hands, arms, head, legs, or torso Shaky voice Difficulty writing or drawing Problems holding and controlling utensils, such as a spoon How is tremor diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take your medical history Will do a physical exam, which includes checking Whether the tremor happens when the muscles are at rest or in action The location of the tremor How often you have the tremor and how strong it is Will do a neurological exam, including checking for Problems with balance Problems with speech Increased muscle stiffness May do blood or urine tests to look for the cause May do imaging tests to help figure out if the cause is damage in your brain May do tests which check your abilities to do daily tasks such as handwriting and holding a fork or cup May do an electromyogram. This is a test which measures involuntary muscle activity and how your muscles respond to nerve stimulation What are the treatments for tremor? There is no cure for most forms of tremor, but there are treatments to help manage symptoms. In some cases, the symptoms may be so mild that you do not need treatment. Finding the right treatment depends on getting the right diagnosis of the cause. Tremor caused by another medical condition may get better or go away when you treat that condition. If your tremor is caused by a certain medicine, stopping that medicine usually makes the tremor go away. Treatments for tremor where the cause is not found include Medicines. There are different medicines for the specific types of tremor. Another option is Botox injections , which can treat several different types. Surgery may be used for severe cases that do not get better with medicines. The most common type is deep brain stimulation (DBS). Physical, speech-language, and occupational therapy , which may help to control tremor and deal with the daily challenges caused by the tremor If you find that caffeine and other stimulants trigger your tremors, it may be helpful to cut them from your diet. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Trichomoniasis,https://medlineplus.gov/trichomoniasis.html,Trichomoniasis (or Trich) is an STD caused by a parasite. It is a common but curable infection. Get the information you need to get treatment.," Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by a parasite. It spreads from person to person during sex. Many people do not have any symptoms. If you do get symptoms, they usually happen within 5 to 28 days after being infected. It can cause vaginitis in women. Symptoms include Yellow-green or gray discharge from the vagina Discomfort during sex Vaginal odor Painful urination Itching burning, and soreness of the vagina and vulva Most men do not have symptoms. If they do, they may have Itching or irritation inside the penis Burning after urination or ejaculation Discharge from the penis Trichomoniasis can increase the risk of getting or spreading other sexually transmitted diseases. Pregnant women with trichomoniasis are more likely to give birth too early , and their babies are more likely have a low birth weight . Lab tests can tell if you have the infection. Treatment is with antibiotics . If you are infected, you and your partner must be treated. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading trichomoniasis. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Trigeminal Neuralgia,https://medlineplus.gov/trigeminalneuralgia.html,"Trigeminal neuralgia (TN or tic douloureux) causes extreme, sudden burning or shock-like pain in the face. Learn about the causes and treatments."," Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a type of chronic pain that affects your face. It causes extreme, sudden burning or shock-like pain. It usually affects one side of the face. Any vibration on your face, even from talking, can set it off. The condition may come and go, disappearing for days or even months. But the longer you have it, the less often it goes away. TN usually affects people over 50, especially women. The cause is probably a blood vessel pressing on the trigeminal nerve, one of the largest nerves in the head. Tumors and multiple sclerosis can also cause TN, but in some cases the cause is unknown. There is no specific test for TN. It can be hard to diagnose, since many other conditions can cause facial pain. Treatment options include medicines, surgery, and complementary techniques. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Triglycerides,https://medlineplus.gov/triglycerides.html,"Triglycerides are a type of fat in your blood. Having a high level may raise the risk of heart disease, especially in women. Learn how to lower it."," What are triglycerides? Triglycerides are a type of fat. They are the most common type of fat in your body. They come from foods, especially butter, oils, and other fats you eat. Triglycerides also come from extra calories. These are the calories that you eat, but your body does not need right away. Your body changes these extra calories into triglycerides and stores them in fat cells. When your body needs energy, it releases the triglycerides. Your VLDL cholesterol particles carry the triglycerides to your tissues. Having a high level of triglycerides can raise your risk of heart diseases , such as coronary artery disease . What causes high triglycerides? Factors that can raise your triglyceride level include Regularly eating more calories than you burn off, especially if you eat a lot of sugar Being overweight or having obesity Cigarette smoking Excessive alcohol use Certain medicines Some genetic disorders Thyroid diseases Poorly controlled type 2 diabetes Liver or kidney diseases How are high triglycerides diagnosed? There is a blood test that measures your triglycerides, along with your cholesterol. Triglyceride levels are measured in milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). The guidelines for triglyceride levels are Category Triglcyeride Level Normal Less than 150mg/dL Borderline high 150 to 199 mg/dL High 200 to 499 mg/dL Very high 500 mg/dL and above Levels above 150mg/dl may raise your risk for heart disease. A triglyceride level of 150 mg/dL or higher is also a risk factor for metabolic syndrome . What are the treatments for high triglycerides? You may be able to lower your triglyceride levels with lifestyle changes: Controlling your weight Regular physical activity Not smoking Limiting sugar and refined foods Limiting alcohol Switching from saturated fats to healthier fats Some people will also need to take cholesterol medicines to lower their triglycerides."
Tsunamis,https://medlineplus.gov/tsunamis.html,"Although there are no guarantees of safety during a tsunami, you can take actions to protect yourself. Read about what you can do."," A tsunami is a series of huge ocean waves created by an underwater disturbance. Causes include earthquakes , landslides, volcanic eruptions , or meteorites--chunks of rock from space that strike the surface of Earth. A tsunami can move hundreds of miles per hour in the open ocean. It can smash into land with waves as high as 100 feet or more and cause devastating floods . Drowning is the most common cause of death related to a tsunami. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a tsunami, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Tubal Ligation,https://medlineplus.gov/tuballigation.html,Tubal ligation (getting your tubes tied) is surgery to prevent a woman from getting pregnant. Learn more about this permanent form of birth control.," Tubal ligation (getting your ""tubes tied"") is a type of surgery. It prevents a woman from getting pregnant. It is a permanent form of birth control , and is effective right away. The surgery cuts, ties, or seals the fallopian tubes. This blocks the path between the ovaries and the uterus. The sperm cannot reach the egg to fertilize it, and the egg cannot reach the uterus. You get the surgery in a hospital or outpatient surgical center. It usually takes about 30 minutes. Almost all women go home the same day. They can return to most normal activities within a few days. Tubal ligation can sometimes be reversed. The reversal is major surgery, and does not always work."
Tuberculosis,https://medlineplus.gov/tuberculosis.html,"Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria that attacks the lungs. Skin tests, blood tests, and x-rays can tell if you have TB. Learn more."," Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but they can also damage other parts of the body. TB spreads through the air when a person with TB of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, or talks. If you have been exposed, you should go to your doctor for tests. You are more likely to get TB if you have a weak immune system. Symptoms of TB in the lungs may include A bad cough that lasts 3 weeks or longer Weight loss Loss of appetite Coughing up blood or mucus Weakness or fatigue Fever Night sweats Skin tests, blood tests, x-rays, and other tests can tell if you have TB. If not treated properly, TB can be deadly. You can usually cure active TB by taking several medicines for a long period of time."
Tuberous Sclerosis,https://medlineplus.gov/tuberoussclerosis.html,Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is a rare genetic disease. It causes benign tumors in the brain and other organs. Learn about symptoms and what can help.," Tuberous sclerosis is a rare genetic disease that causes benign tumors to grow in the brain and other organs. Symptoms vary, depending on where the tumors grow. They could include Skin problems, such as light patches and thickened skin Seizures Behavior problems Intellectual disabilities Kidney problems Some people have signs of tuberous sclerosis at birth. In others it can take time for the symptoms to develop. The disease can be mild, or it can cause severe disabilities. In rare cases, tumors in vital organs or other symptoms can be life-threatening. Tuberous sclerosis has no cure, but treatments can help symptoms. Options include medicines, educational and occupational therapy, surgery, or surgery to treat specific complications. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Tumors and Pregnancy,https://medlineplus.gov/tumorsandpregnancy.html,"Tumors during pregnancy are rare, but they can happen. Treatment depends on the type of tumor, whether it has spread, and your overall health."," Tumors during pregnancy are rare, but they can happen. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. The most common cancers in pregnancy are breast cancer, cervical cancer, lymphoma, and melanoma. Cancer itself rarely harms the baby, and some cancer treatments are safe during pregnancy. You and your health care provider will work together to find the best treatment. Your options will depend on how far along the pregnancy is, as well as the type, size, and stage of your cancer. Another type of tumor that women can get is called a gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD). It happens when a fertilized egg doesn't become a fetus. GTD is not always easy to find. It is usually benign, but some types can be malignant. The most common type of GTD is a molar pregnancy. In its early stages, it may look like a normal pregnancy. You should see your health care provider if you have vaginal bleeding (not menstrual bleeding). Treatment depends on the type of tumor, whether it has spread to other places, and your overall health."
Turner Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/turnersyndrome.html,Turner syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects a girl's development. The cause is a missing or incomplete X chromosome. Learn more.," Turner syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects a girl's development. The cause is a missing or incomplete X chromosome. Girls who have it are short, and their ovaries don't work properly. Other physical features typical of Turner syndrome are Short, ""webbed"" neck with folds of skin from tops of shoulders to sides of neck Low hairline in the back Low-set ears Swollen hands and feet Most women with Turner syndrome are infertile . They are at risk for health difficulties such as high blood pressure, kidney problems, diabetes, cataracts, osteoporosis, and thyroid problems. Doctors diagnose Turner syndrome based on symptoms and a genetic test. Sometimes it is found in prenatal testing. There is no cure for Turner syndrome, but there are some treatments for the symptoms. Growth hormone often helps girls reach heights that are close to average. Hormone replacement can help start sexual development. Assisted reproduction techniques can help some women with Turner syndrome get pregnant. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
"Twins, Triplets, Multiple Births",https://medlineplus.gov/twinstripletsmultiplebirths.html,Parenting multiples can be a challenge. Find out what to expect.," If you are pregnant with more than one baby, you are far from alone. Multiple births are up in the United States. More women are having babies after age 30 and more are taking fertility drugs. Both boost the chance of carrying more than one baby. A family history of twins also makes multiples more likely. Years ago, most twins came as a surprise. Now, most women know about a multiple pregnancy early. Women with multiple pregnancies should see their health care providers more often than women who are expecting one baby. Multiple pregnancy babies have a much higher risk of being born prematurely and having a low birth weight . There is also more of a risk of disabilities. Some women have to go on bed rest to delay labor. Finally, they may deliver by C-section , especially if there are three babies or more. Parenting multiples can be a challenge. Volunteer help and support groups for parents of multiples can help. Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
Ulcerative Colitis,https://medlineplus.gov/ulcerativecolitis.html,Ulcerative Colitis (UC) can cause long-lasting swelling and ulcers in the large intestine. It is a type of inflammatory bowel disease. Find out more.," Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a disease that causes inflammation and sores, called ulcers, in the lining of the rectum and colon. It is one of a group of diseases called inflammatory bowel disease. UC can happen at any age, but it usually starts between the ages of 15 and 30. It tends to run in families. The most common symptoms are pain in the abdomen and blood or pus in diarrhea. Other symptoms may include Anemia Severe tiredness Weight loss Loss of appetite Bleeding from the rectum Sores on the skin Joint pain Growth failure in children About half of people with UC have mild symptoms. Doctors use blood tests, stool tests, colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy, and imaging tests to diagnose UC. Several types of drugs can help control it. Some people have long periods of remission, when they are free of symptoms. In severe cases, doctors must remove the colon. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Uncommon Infant and Newborn Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/uncommoninfantandnewbornproblems.html,It can be scary when your baby is sick. You may not know whether the problem is serious or how to treat it. Read about what to do.," It can be scary when your baby is sick, especially when it is not an everyday problem like a cold or a fever. You may not know whether the problem is serious or how to treat it. If you have concerns about your baby's health, call your health care provider right away. Learning information about your baby's condition can help ease your worry. Do not be afraid to ask questions about your baby's care. By working together with your health care provider, you make sure that your baby gets the best care possible."
Underage Drinking,https://medlineplus.gov/underagedrinking.html,"Kids often begin drinking to look ""cool"" or fit in with their peers. Parents can help their kids avoid alcohol problems. Learn more."," Alcohol is the most widely misused substance among America's youth. Drinking by young people has big health and safety risks. It is dangerous because it Causes many deaths and injuries Can lead to poor decisions about engaging in risky behavior, such as drinking and driving or unprotected sex Increases the risk of physical and sexual assault Can lead to other problems, such as trouble in school May interfere with brain development Increases the risk of alcohol problems later in life Kids often begin drinking to look ""cool"" or fit in with their peers. Parents can help their kids avoid alcohol problems. Open communication and conversations about drinking are important. So is being involved in your child's life. Get help for your child if you suspect a drinking problem. NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism"
Understanding Medical Research,https://medlineplus.gov/understandingmedicalresearch.html,It seems to happen almost every day - you hear about the results of a new medical research study. Learn how to evaluate medical findings.," It seems to happen almost every day - you hear about the results of a new medical research study. Sometimes the results of one study seem to disagree with the results of another study. It's important to be critical when reading or listening to reports of new medical findings. Some questions that can help you evaluate health information include: Was the study in animals or people? Does the study include people like you? How big was the study? Was it a randomized controlled clinical trial ? Where was the research done? If a new treatment was being tested, were there side effects? Who paid for the research? Who is reporting the results? NIH: National Institutes of Health"
Ureteral Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/ureteraldisorders.html,"Ureteral disorders occur when ureters become blocked or injured, which affect the flow of urine to the bladder. Read more about the ureter function"," Your kidneys make urine by filtering wastes and extra water from your blood. The urine travels from the kidneys to the bladder in two thin tubes called ureters. The ureters are about 8 to 10 inches long. Muscles in the ureter walls tighten and relax to force urine down and away from the kidneys. Small amounts of urine flow from the ureters into the bladder about every 10 to 15 seconds. Sometimes the ureters can become blocked or injured. This can block the flow of urine to the bladder. If urine stands still or backs up the ureter, you may get a urinary tract infections . Doctors diagnose problems with the ureters using different tests. These include urine tests, x-rays, and examination of the ureter with a scope called a cystoscope. Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. It may include medicines and, in severe cases, surgery. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Urethral Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/urethraldisorders.html,"Urethral disorders may cause pain or your ability to urinate. Learn how the common disorders, urethritis and urethral stricture, affect each gender"," The urethra is the tube that allows urine to pass out of the body. In men, it's a long tube that runs through the penis. It also carries semen in men. In women, it's short and is just above the vagina. Urethral problems may happen due to aging, illness, or injury. They include Urethral cancer - a rare cancer that happens more often in men Urethral stricture - a narrowing of the opening of the urethra Urethritis - inflammation of the urethra, sometimes caused by infection Urethral problems may cause pain or difficulty passing urine. You may also have bleeding or discharge from the urethra. Doctors diagnose urethral problems using different tests. These include urine tests, x-rays and an examination of the urethra with a scope called a cystoscope. Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. It may include medicines and, in severe cases, surgery."
Urinalysis,https://medlineplus.gov/urinalysis.html,A urinalysis is a test of your urine. Doctors use urine tests to find issues including UTI and diabetes. Learn about the test and what it checks for.," A urinalysis is a test of your urine . It is often done to check for a urinary tract infections , kidney problems , or diabetes . You may also have one during a checkup, if you are admitted to the hospital, before you have surgery, or if you are pregnant. It can also monitor some medical conditions and treatments. A urinalysis involves checking the urine for Its color Its appearance (whether it is clear or cloudy) Any odor The pH level (acidity) Whether there are substances that are not normally in urine, such as blood, too much protein, glucose, ketones, and bilirubin Whether there are cells, crystals, and casts (tube-shaped proteins) Whether it contains bacteria or other germs"
Urinary Incontinence,https://medlineplus.gov/urinaryincontinence.html,"People with urinary incontinence suffer from a lack of bladder control, which can cause accidents. Learn about the other causes of stress incontinence"," What is urinary incontinence (UI)? Urinary incontinence (UI) is the loss of bladder control, or being unable to control urination. It is a common condition. It can range from being a minor problem to something that greatly affects your daily life. In any case, it can get better with proper treatment. What are the types of urinary incontinence (UI)? There are several different types of UI. Each type has different symptoms and causes: Stress incontinence happens when stress or pressure on your bladder causes you to leak urine. This could be due to coughing, sneezing, laughing, lifting something heavy, or physical activity. Causes include weak pelvic floor muscles and the bladder being out of its normal position. Urge, or urgency, incontinence happens when you have a strong urge (need) to urinate, and some urine leaks out before you can make it to the toilet. It is often related to an overactive bladder . Urge incontinence is most common in older people. It can sometimes be a sign of a urinary tract infection (UTI) . It can also happen in some neurological conditions , such as multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injuries . Overflow incontinence happens when your bladder doesn't empty all the way. This causes too much urine to stay in your bladder. Your bladder gets too full, and you leak urine. This form of UI is most common in men. Some of the causes include tumors, kidney stones , diabetes , and certain medicines. Functional incontinence happens when a physical or mental disability , trouble speaking , or some other problem keeps you from getting to the toilet in time. For example, someone with arthritis may have trouble unbuttoning his or her pants, or a person with Alzheimer's disease may not realize they need to plan to use the toilet. Mixed incontinence means that you have more than one type of incontinence. It's usually a combination of stress and urge incontinence. Transient incontinence is urine leakage that is caused by a temporary (transient) situation such as an infection or new medicine. Once the cause is removed, the incontinence goes away. Bedwetting refers to urine leakage during sleep. This is most common in children, but adults can also have it. Bedwetting is normal for many children. It is more common in boys. Bedwetting is often not considered a health problem, especially when it runs in the family. But if it still happens often at age 5 and older, it may be because of a bladder control problem. This problem could be caused by slow physical development, an illness, making too much urine at night, or another problem. Sometimes there is more than one cause. In adults, the causes include some medicines, caffeine , and alcohol . It can also be caused by certain health problems, such as diabetes insipidus , a urinary tract infection (UTI), kidney stones, enlarged prostate (BPH), and sleep apnea . Who is at risk for urinary incontinence (UI)? In adults, you are at higher risk of developing UI if you Are female, especially after going through pregnancy, childbirth, and/or menopause Are older. As you age, your urinary tract muscles weaken, making it harder to hold in urine. Are a man with prostate problems Have certain health problems, such as diabetes, obesity , or long-lasting constipation Are a smoker Have a birth defect that affects the structure of your urinary tract In children, bedwetting is more common in younger children, boys, and those whose parents wet the bed when they were children. How is urinary incontinence (UI) diagnosed? Your health care provider may use many tools to make a diagnosis: A medical history, which includes asking about your symptoms. Your provider may ask you to keep a bladder diary for a few days before your appointment. The bladder diary includes how much and when you drink liquids, when and how much you urinate, and whether you leak urine. A physical exam, which can include a rectal exam. Women may also get a pelvic exam. Urine and/or blood tests Bladder function tests Imaging tests What are the treatments for urinary incontinence (UI)? Treatment depends on the type and cause of your UI. You may need a combination of treatments. Your provider may first suggest self-care treatments, including Lifestyle changes to reduce leaks: Drinking the right amount of liquid at the right time Being physically active Staying at a healthy weigh Avoiding constipation Not smoking Bladder training. This involves urinating according to a schedule. Your provider makes a schedule from you, based on information from your bladder diary. After you adjust to the schedule, you gradually wait a little longer between trips to the bathroom. This can help stretch your bladder so it can hold more urine. Doing exercises to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles . Strong pelvic floor muscles hold in urine better than weak muscles. The strengthening exercises are called Kegel exercises. They involve tightening and relaxing the muscles that control urine flow. If these treatments do not work, your provider may suggest other options such as Medicines , which can be used to Relax the bladder muscles, to help prevent bladder spasms Block nerve signals that cause urinary frequency and urgency In men, shrink the prostate and improve urine flow Medical devices , including A catheter, which is a tube to carry urine out of the body. You might use one a few times a day or all the time. For women, a ring or a tampon-like device inserted into the vagina. The devices pushes up against your urethra to help decrease leaks. Bulking agents , which are injected into the bladder neck and urethra tissues to thicken them. This helps close your bladder opening so you have less leaking. Electrical nerve stimulation , which involves changing your bladder's reflexes using pulses of electricity Surgery to support the bladder in its normal position. This may be done with a sling that is attached to the pubic bone. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Urinary Tract Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/urinarytractinfections.html,You may have a urinary tract infection (UTI) if you feel a burn while urinating or suffer from lower body pressure. Uncover a list of UTI symptoms," The urinary system is the body's drainage system for removing wastes and extra water. It includes two kidneys, two ureters, a bladder, and a urethra. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are the second most common type of infection in the body. You may have a UTI if you notice Pain or burning when you urinate Fever, tiredness, or shakiness An urge to urinate often Pressure in your lower belly Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy or reddish Pain in your back or side below the ribs People of any age or sex can get UTIs. But about four times as many women get UTIs as men. You're also at higher risk if you have diabetes, need a tube to drain your bladder, or have a spinal cord injury. If you think you have a UTI it is important to see your doctor. Your doctor can tell if you have a UTI with a urine test . Treatment is with antibiotics. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Urine and Urination,https://medlineplus.gov/urineandurination.html,"A healthy bladder can hold up to 16 ounces of urine for 2 to 5 hours. If this isn't the norm, read about the problems it may be attributed to."," Your kidneys make urine by filtering wastes and extra water from your blood. The waste is called urea. Your blood carries it to the kidneys. From the kidneys, urine travels down two thin tubes called ureters to the bladder. The bladder stores urine until you are ready to urinate. It swells into a round shape when it is full and gets smaller when empty. If your urinary system is healthy, your bladder can hold up to 16 ounces (2 cups) of urine comfortably for 2 to 5 hours. You may have problems with urination if you have Kidney failure Urinary tract infections An enlarged prostate Bladder control problems like incontinence , overactive bladder , or interstitial cystitis A blockage that prevents you from emptying your bladder Some conditions may also cause you to have blood or protein in your urine. If you have a urinary problem, see your health care provider. Urinalysis and other urine tests can help to diagnose the problem. Treatment depends on the cause. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Usher Syndrome,https://medlineplus.gov/ushersyndrome.html,Usher syndrome is an inherited disease that causes serious hearing loss and retinitis pigmentosa (eye disorder). Read the three types of the syndrome.," Usher syndrome is an inherited disease that causes serious hearing loss and retinitis pigmentosa , an eye disorder that causes your vision to get worse over time. It is the most common condition that affects both hearing and vision. There are three types of Usher syndrome: People with type I are deaf from birth and have severe balance problems from a young age. Vision problems usually start by age 10 and lead to blindness. People with type II have moderate to severe hearing loss and normal balance. Vision problems start in the early teens and get worse more slowly than in type I. People with type III are born with normal hearing and near-normal balance but develop vision problems and then hearing loss. There is no cure. Tools such as hearing aids or cochlear implants can help some people. Training such as Braille instruction, low-vision services, or auditory training can also help. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Uterine Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/uterinecancer.html,"Uterine cancer is cancer of the uterus. The most common type, endometrial cancer, happens most often in women over 55. Know the signs and symptoms."," The uterus , or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a women is pregnant. There are different types of uterine cancer. The most common type starts in the endometrium, the lining of the uterus. This type is also called endometrial cancer. The symptoms of uterine cancer include Abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge Trouble urinating Pelvic pain Pain during intercourse Uterine cancer usually happens after menopause. It is more common in women who have obesity. You also have a higher risk if you took estrogen-only hormone replacement therapy (menopausal hormone therapy) for many years. Tests to find uterine cancer include a pelvic exam, imaging tests, and a biopsy. The most common treatment is a hysterectomy , which is surgery to remove the uterus. Sometimes the surgery also removes the ovaries and fallopian tubes. Other treatments include hormone therapy, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Some women get more than one type of treatment. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Uterine Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/uterinediseases.html,"Uterine diseases are conditions that affect the uterus such as endometriosis, which is when tissue grows where it's not supposed to. Learn more here."," The uterus, or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant. The first sign of a problem with the uterus may be bleeding between periods or after sex. Causes can include hormones, thyroid problems, fibroids , polyps, cancer , infection, or pregnancy. Treatment depends on the cause. Sometimes birth control pills treat hormonal imbalances. If a thyroid problem is the cause, treating it may also stop the bleeding. If you have cancer or hyperplasia, an overgrowth of normal cells in the uterus, you may need surgery. With two other uterine problems, tissue that normally lines the uterus grows where it is not supposed to. In endometriosis , it grows outside the uterus. In adenomyosis, it grows in the uterus's outside walls. Pain medicine may help. Other treatments include hormones and surgery."
Uterine Fibroids,https://medlineplus.gov/uterinefibroids.html,Fibroids are almost always non-cancerous. Symptoms may include heavy bleeding or frequent urination. Here's what you should know about fibroids. ," Uterine fibroids are the most common benign tumors in women of childbearing age. Fibroids are made of muscle cells and other tissues that grow in and around the wall of the uterus, or womb. The cause of fibroids is unknown. Risk factors include being African American or being overweight. Many women with fibroids have no symptoms. If you do have symptoms, they may include Heavy or painful periods or bleeding between periods Feeling ""full"" in the lower abdomen Urinating often Pain during sex Lower back pain Reproductive problems, such as infertility, multiple miscarriages or early labor Your health care provider may find fibroids during a gynecological exam or by using imaging tests. Treatment includes drugs that can slow or stop their growth, or surgery. If you have no symptoms, you may not even need treatment. Many women with fibroids can get pregnant naturally. For those who cannot, infertility treatments may help. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Vaccine Safety,https://medlineplus.gov/vaccinesafety.html,Vaccines protect you and your family from disease. Learn about vaccine safety in the United States. It includes a thorough process of testing and evaluating vaccines before they can be approved.," What are vaccines? Vaccines play an important role in keeping us healthy. They protect us from serious and sometimes deadly diseases. Vaccines are injections (shots), liquids, pills, or nasal sprays that you take to teach your body's immune system to recognize and defend against harmful germs. The germs could be viruses or bacteria . Some types of vaccines contain germs that cause disease. But the germs have been killed or weakened enough that they won't make you sick. Some vaccines only contain a part of a germ. Other types of vaccines include instructions for your cells to make a protein of the germ. These different vaccine types all spark an immune response, which helps your body fight off the germs. Your immune system will also remember the germ and attack it if that germ ever invades again. This protection against a certain disease is called immunity. These diseases can be very serious. Because of this, getting immunity from a vaccine is safer than getting immunity by being sick with the disease. And for a few vaccines, getting vaccinated can actually give you a better immune response than getting the disease would. Do vaccines cause side effects? As with medicines, any vaccine can cause side effects. Most of the time the side effects are minor, such as a sore arm, fatigue , or mild fever . They usually go away within a few days. These common side effects are often a sign that your body is starting to build immunity against a disease. Serious side effects from vaccines can happen, but they are very rare. These side effects could include a severe allergic reaction . Other possible side effects are different for each vaccine. Talk with your health care provider if you're concerned about your health after getting vaccinated. Some people worry that childhood vaccines could cause autism spectrum disorder (ASD). But many scientific studies have looked at this and have found no link between vaccines and ASD. How are vaccines tested for safety? Every vaccine that is approved in the United States goes through extensive safety testing. It starts with testing and evaluation of the vaccine before it's approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This process can often take several years. First, the vaccine is tested in labs. Based on those tests, the FDA decides whether to test the vaccine with people. Testing with people is done through clinical trials . In these trials, the vaccines are tested on volunteers. Clinical trials usually start with 20 to 100 volunteers, but eventually include thousands of volunteers. The clinical trials have three phases. The trials are looking for the answer to important questions such as Is the vaccine safe? What dose (amount) works best? How does the immune system react to it? How effective is it? During the process, the FDA works closely with the company who makes the vaccine to evaluate the vaccine's safety and effectiveness. If the vaccine is found to be safe and effective, it will be approved and licensed by the FDA. After a vaccine is licensed, experts may consider adding it to the recommended vaccine, or immunization, schedule. This schedule is from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). It lists which vaccines are recommended for different groups of people. They list which age groups should get which vaccines, how many doses they need, and when they should get them. Testing and monitoring continue after the vaccine is approved: The company making the vaccines tests every batch of vaccines for quality and safety. The FDA reviews the results of these tests. It also inspects the factories where the vaccine is made. These checks help make sure the vaccines meet standards for quality and safety. The FDA, CDC, and other federal agencies continue to monitor its safety, to watch for possible side effects. They have systems to track any safety issues with the vaccines. These high safety standards and testing help to make sure that vaccines in the United States are safe. Vaccines help protect against serious, even deadly, diseases. They not only protect you, but also help to keep these diseases from spreading to others."
Vaccines,https://medlineplus.gov/vaccines.html,"Vaccines, also called immunizations or inoculations, can prevent many life-threatening diseases. Learn about how they protect you and which ones you need."," What are vaccines? Vaccines are injections (shots), liquids, pills, or nasal sprays that you take to teach your body's immune system to recognize and defend against harmful germs. For example, there are vaccines to protect against Viruses , like the ones that cause the flu and COVID-19 Bacteria , including tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis What are the types of vaccines? There are several types of vaccines: Live-attenuated vaccines use a weakened form of the germ Inactivated vaccines use a killed version of the germ Subunit, recombinant, polysaccharide, and conjugate vaccines use only specific pieces of the germ, such as its protein, sugar, or casing Toxoid vaccines that use a toxin (harmful product) made by the germ mRNA vaccines use messenger RNA, which gives your cells instructions for how to make a protein or (piece of a protein) of the germ Viral vector vaccines use genetic material, which gives your cells instructions for making a protein of the germ. These vaccines also contain a different, harmless virus that helps get the genetic material into your cells. Vaccines work in different ways, but they all spark an immune response. The immune response is the way your body defends itself against substances it sees as foreign or harmful. These substances include germs that can cause disease. What happens in an immune response? There are different steps in the immune response: When a germ invades, your body sees it as foreign Your immune system helps your body fight off the germ Your immune system also remembers the germ. It will attack the germ if it ever invades again. This ""memory"" protects you against the disease that the germ causes. This type of protection is called immunity. What are immunization and vaccination? Immunization is the process of becoming protected against a disease. But it can also mean the same thing as vaccination, which is getting a vaccine to become protected against a disease. Why are vaccines important? Vaccines are important because they protect you against many diseases. These diseases can be very serious. So getting immunity from a vaccine is safer than getting immunity by being sick with the disease. And for a few vaccines, getting vaccinated can actually give you a better immune response than getting the disease would. But vaccines don't just protect you. They also protect the people around you through community immunity. What is community immunity? Community immunity, or herd immunity, is the idea that vaccines can help keep communities healthy. Normally, germs can travel quickly through a community and make a lot of people sick. If enough people get sick, it can lead to an outbreak. But when enough people are vaccinated against a certain disease, it's harder for that disease to spread to others. This type of protection means that the entire community is less likely to get the disease. Community immunity is especially important for people who can't get certain vaccines. For example, they may not be able to get a vaccine because they have weakened immune systems. Others may be allergic to certain vaccine ingredients. And newborn babies are too young to get some vaccines. Community immunity can help to protect them all. Are vaccines safe? Vaccines are safe . They must go through extensive safety testing and evaluation before they are approved in the United States. What is a vaccine schedule? A vaccine, or immunization, schedule lists which vaccines are recommended for different groups of people. It includes who should get the vaccines, how many doses they need, and when they should get them. In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) publishes the vaccine schedule. It's important for both children and adults to get their vaccines according to the schedule. Following the schedule allows them to get protection from the diseases at exactly the right time."
Vaginal Bleeding,https://medlineplus.gov/vaginalbleeding.html,"Vaginal bleeding is different from a period. It may last for weeks, or is between periods, before puberty, or after menopause. Learn about the causes."," Menstruation, or period, is a woman's monthly bleeding.Abnormal vaginal bleeding is different from normal menstrual periods. It could be bleeding that is between periods, is very heavy, or lasts much longer than usual. It also includes bleeding that happens before puberty or after menopause. Causes can include Uterine fibroids or polyps Hormone problems Hormone pills, such as birth control pills and hormone replacement therapy (menopausal hormone therapy) Cancer of the cervix , ovaries , uterus or vagina Thyroid problems Bleeding during pregnancy can have several different causes. It is not always serious, but to be safe you should contact your health care provider right away. Pelvic exams, blood tests, imaging tests , and other procedures can help your health care provider diagnose the problem. Treatment depends on the cause. Treatments may include medicines, hormones, and surgery."
Vaginal Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/vaginalcancer.html,Vaginal cancer is not very common and can be found early with a pap smear. Learn about risk factors such as HPV and the treatment options available.," Vaginal cancer is a rare type of cancer. It is more common in women 60 and older. You are also more likely to get it if you have had a human papillomavirus ( HPV ) infection or if your mother took diethylstilbestrol (DES) when she was pregnant. Doctors prescribed DES in the 1950's to prevent miscarriages. You are also at higher risk if you have had abnormal cells in the vagina, cervix, or uterus. It often doesn't have early symptoms. However, see your doctor if you notice Bleeding that is not your period A vaginal lump Pelvic pain A Pap test can find abnormal cells that may be cancer. Vaginal cancer can often be cured in its early stages. Treatment might include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Vaginal Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/vaginaldiseases.html,"Vaginal diseases can cause uncomfortable symptoms like itching, burning, and pain. Read about vaginitis (inflammation) and other vaginal problems."," Vaginal problems are some of the most common reasons women go to the doctor. They may have symptoms such as Itching Burning Pain Abnormal bleeding Discharge One common problem is vaginitis , an inflammation of the vagina. Other problems that affect the vagina include sexually transmitted diseases, vaginal cancer , and vulvar cancer . Treatment of vaginal problems depends on the cause."
Vaginitis,https://medlineplus.gov/vaginitis.html,"Vaginitis, or vulvovaginitis, is an inflammation or infection of the vagina. It can cause itching, pain, discharge, and odor.  Learn about causes and treatment."," What is vaginitis? Vaginitis, also called vulvovaginitis, is an inflammation or infection of the vagina. It can also affect the vulva, which is the external part of a woman's genitals. Vaginitis can cause itching, pain, discharge, and odor. Vaginitis is common, especially in women in their reproductive years. It usually happens when there is a change in the balance of bacteria or yeast that are normally found in your vagina. There are different types of vaginitis, and they have different causes, symptoms, and treatments. What causes vaginitis? Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common vaginal infection in women ages 15-44. It happens when there is an imbalance between the ""good"" and ""harmful"" bacteria that are normally found in a woman's vagina. Many things can change the balance of bacteria, including Taking antibiotics Douching Using an intrauterine device (IUD) Having unprotected sex with a new partner Having many sexual partners Yeast infections (candidiasis) happen when too much candida grows in the vagina. Candida is the scientific name for yeast. It is a fungus that lives almost everywhere, including in your body. You may have too much growing in the vagina because of Antibiotics Pregnancy Diabetes, especially if it is not well-controlled Corticosteroid medicines Trichomoniasis can also cause vaginitis. Trichomoniasis is a common sexually transmitted disease. It is caused by a parasite. You can also have vaginitis if you are allergic or sensitive to certain products that you use. Examples include vaginal sprays, douches, spermicides, soaps, detergents, or fabric softeners. They can cause burning, itching, and discharge. Hormonal changes can also cause vaginal irritation. Examples are when you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or when you have gone through menopause. Sometimes you can have more than one cause of vaginitis at the same time. What are the symptoms of vaginitis? The symptoms of vaginitis depend on which type you have. With BV, you may not have symptoms. You could have a thin white or gray vaginal discharge. There may be an odor, such as a strong fish-like odor, especially after sex. Yeast infections produce a thick, white discharge from the vagina that can look like cottage cheese. The discharge can be watery and often has no smell. Yeast infections usually cause the vagina and vulva to become itchy and red. You may not have symptoms when you have trichomoniasis. If you do have them, they include itching, burning, and soreness of the vagina and vulva. You may have burning during urination. You could also have gray-green discharge, which may smell bad. How is the cause of vaginitis diagnosed? To find out the cause of your symptoms, your health care provider may Ask you about your medical history Do a pelvic exam Look for vaginal discharge, noting its color, qualities, and any odor Study a sample of your vaginal fluid under a microscope In some cases, you may need more tests. What are the treatments for vaginitis? The treatment depends on which type of vaginitis you have. BV is treatable with antibiotics . You may get pills to swallow, or cream or gel that you put in your vagina. During treatment, you should use a condom during sex or not have sex at all. Yeast infections are usually treated with a cream or with medicine that you put inside your vagina. You can buy over-the-counter treatments for yeast infections, but you need to be sure that you do have a yeast infection and not another type of vaginitis. See your health care provider if this is the first time you have had symptoms. Even if you have had yeast infections before, it is a good idea to call your health care provider before using an over-the-counter treatment. The treatment for trichomoniasis is usually a single-dose antibiotic. Both you and your partner(s) should be treated, to prevent spreading the infection to others and to keep from getting it again. If your vaginitis is due to an allergy or sensitivity to a product, you need to figure out which product is causing the problem. It could be a product that you started using recently. Once you figure it out, you should stop using the product. If the cause of your vaginitis is a hormonal change, your health care provider may give you estrogen cream to help with your symptoms. Can vaginitis cause other health problems? It is important to treat BV and trichomoniasis, because having either of them can increase your risk for getting HIV or another sexually transmitted disease . If you are pregnant, BV or trichomoniasis can increase your risk for preterm labor and preterm birth. Can vaginitis be prevented? To help prevent vaginitis Do not douche or use vaginal sprays Use a latex condom when having sex. If your or your partner is allergic to latex , you can use polyurethane condoms. Avoid clothes that hold in heat and moisture Wear cotton underwear"
Valley Fever,https://medlineplus.gov/valleyfever.html,Valley Fever is a disease caused by a fungus called Coccidioides. You get it from inhaling the spores of the fungus.It's most common in older adults.," Valley Fever is a disease caused by a fungus (or mold) called Coccidioides. The fungi live in the soil of dry areas like the southwestern U.S. You get it from inhaling the spores of the fungus. The infection cannot spread from person to person. Anyone can get Valley Fever. But it's most common among older adults, especially those 60 and older. People who have recently moved to an area where it occurs are at highest risk for infection. Other people at higher risk include Workers in jobs that expose them to soil dust. These include construction workers, agricultural workers, and military forces doing field training. African Americans and Asians Women in their third trimester of pregnancy People with weak immune systems Valley Fever is often mild, with no symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include a flu-like illness, with fever, cough, headache, rash, and muscle aches. Most people get better within several weeks or months. A small number of people may develop a chronic lung or widespread infection. Valley Fever is diagnosed by testing your blood, other body fluids, or tissues. Many people with the acute infection get better without treatment. In some cases, doctors may prescribe antifungal drugs for acute infections. Severe infections require antifungal drugs. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Varicose Veins,https://medlineplus.gov/varicoseveins.html,"Varicose veins (or spider veins) are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the skin. Learn about how to keep them from getting worse."," Varicose veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the skin. They usually occur in the legs, but also can form in other parts of the body. Hemorrhoids are a type of varicose vein. Your veins have one-way valves that help keep blood flowing toward your heart. If the valves are weak or damaged, blood can back up and pool in your veins. This causes the veins to swell, which can lead to varicose veins. Varicose veins are very common. You are more at risk if you are older, are female, have obesity, don't exercise, or have a family history of varicose veins. They can also be more common in pregnancy. Doctors often diagnose varicose veins from a physical exam. Sometimes you may need additional tests. Exercising, losing weight, elevating your legs when resting, and not crossing them when sitting can help keep varicose veins from getting worse. Wearing loose clothing and avoiding long periods of standing can also help. If varicose veins are painful or you don't like the way they look, your doctor may recommend procedures to remove them. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Vascular Diseases,https://medlineplus.gov/vasculardiseases.html,Your vascular system is made up of blood vessels that carry blood to and from the heart. Learn about vascular diseases and their treatments.," What are vascular diseases? Your vascular system is your body's network of blood vessels. It includes your Arteries, which carry oxygen-rich blood from your heart to your tissues and organs Veins, which carry the blood and waste products back to your heart Capillaries, which are tiny blood vessels that connect your small arteries to your small veins. The walls of the capillaries are thin and leaky, to allow for an exchange of materials between your tissues and blood. Vascular diseases are conditions which affect your vascular system. They are common and can be serious. Some types include Aneurysm - a bulge or ""ballooning"" in the wall of an artery Atherosclerosis - a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Blood clots , including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism Coronary artery disease and carotid artery disease , diseases that involve the narrowing or blockage of an artery. The cause is usually a buildup of plaque. Raynaud's disease - a disorder that causes the blood vessels to narrow when you are cold or feeling stressed Stroke - a serious condition that happens when blood flow to your brain stops. Varicose veins - swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the skin Vasculitis - inflammation of the blood vessels What causes vascular diseases? The causes of vascular diseases depend on the specific disease. These causes include Genetics Heart diseases such as high cholesterol and high blood pressure Infection Injury Medicines, including hormones Sometimes the cause is unknown. Who is at risk for vascular diseases? The risk factors for vascular diseases can vary, depending on the specific disease. But some of the more common risk factors include Age - your risk of some diseases goes up as you get older Conditions that can affect the heart and blood vessels, such as diabetes or high cholesterol Family history of vascular or heart diseases Infection or injury that damages your veins Lack of exercise Obesity Pregnancy Sitting or standing still for long periods of time Smoking What are the symptoms of vascular diseases? The symptoms for each disease are different. How are vascular diseases diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms and medical history. You may have imaging tests and/or blood tests. How are vascular diseases treated? Which treatment you get depends on which vascular disease you have and how severe it is. Types of treatments for vascular diseases include Lifestyle changes, such as eating a heart-healthy diet and getting more exercise Medicines, such as blood pressure medicines , blood thinners , cholesterol medicines , and clot-dissolving drugs. In some cases, providers use a catheter to send medicine directly to a blood vessel. Non-surgical procedures, such as angioplasty , stenting, and vein ablation Surgery Can vascular diseases be prevented? There are steps you can take to help prevent vascular diseases: Make healthy lifestyle changes, such as eating a heart-healthy diet and getting more exercise Don't smoke. If you are already a smoker, talk to your health care provider for help in finding the best way for you to quit . Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol in check If you have diabetes, control your blood sugar Try not to sit or stand for up long periods of time. If you do need to sit all day, get up and move around every hour or so. If you traveling on a long trip, you can also wear compression stockings and regularly stretch your legs."
Vasculitis,https://medlineplus.gov/vasculitis.html,"Vasculitis, also called Angiitis, is an inflammation of the blood vessels. Learn about symptoms and treatment."," Vasculitis is an inflammation of the blood vessels. It happens when the body's immune system attacks the blood vessel by mistake. It can happen because of an infection, a medicine, or another disease. The cause is often unknown. Vasculitis can affect arteries, veins and capillaries. Arteries are vessels that carry blood from the heart to the body's organs. Veins are the vessels that carry blood back to the heart. Capillaries are tiny blood vessels that connect the small arteries and veins. When a blood vessel becomes inflamed, it can Narrow, making it more difficult for blood to get through Close off completely so that blood can't get through Stretch and weaken so much that it bulges. The bulge is called an aneurysm . If it bursts, it can cause dangerous bleeding inside the body. Symptoms of vasculitis can vary, but usually include fever, swelling and a general sense of feeling ill. The main goal of treatment is to stop the inflammation. Steroids and other medicines to stop inflammation are often helpful. NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
Vasectomy,https://medlineplus.gov/vasectomy.html,"Vasectomy is a surgery that is a permanent form of birth control in men. Read about how it is done, and how it can sometimes be reversed. "," Vasectomy is a type of surgery that prevents a man from being able to get a woman pregnant. It is a permanent form of birth control . A vasectomy works by cutting the tubes that carry the sperm out of the testicles. The surgery usually takes no more than 30 minutes. Most men go home the same day. In most cases, recovery takes less than a week. Having a vasectomy does not affect your sex life. It takes about three months before it is effective. Your doctor will test your semen to make sure that there are no sperm in it. Vasectomies can sometimes be reversed, but not always. Having a vasectomy does not protect against sexually transmitted diseases , such as HIV/AIDS. Men who have had a vasectomy should still practice safe sex to avoid STDs. NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Vegetarian Diet,https://medlineplus.gov/vegetariandiet.html,"A vegetarian diet focuses on plants for food.  There is no single type of vegetarian diet. Nutrients to focus on include protein, iron and calcium."," A vegetarian diet focuses on plants for food. These include fruits, vegetables, dried beans and peas, grains, seeds and nuts. There is no single type of vegetarian diet. Instead, vegetarian eating patterns usually fall into the following groups: The vegan diet, which excludes all meat and animal products The lacto vegetarian diet, which includes plant foods plus dairy products The lacto-ovo vegetarian diet, which includes both dairy products and eggs People who follow vegetarian diets can get all the nutrients they need. However, they must be careful to eat a wide variety of foods to meet their nutritional needs. Nutrients vegetarians may need to focus on include protein , iron , calcium , zinc and vitamin B12 . United States Department of Agriculture"
Veterans and Military Family Health,https://medlineplus.gov/veteransandmilitaryfamilyhealth.html,Families of military service members and veterans face some unique challenges such as disruptions in parenting. Learn how families may be affected.," Service members and veterans face some different health issues from civilians. Their families also face some unique challenges. Families may have to cope with Separation from their loved ones Anxiety over loved ones' safety in combat zones Illnesses and injuries from combat, including disabilities Mental health effects of military service, including post-traumatic stress disorder Family issues such as disruptions in parenting Caregiver stress"
Veterans and Military Health,https://medlineplus.gov/veteransandmilitaryhealth.html,"Military service members and veterans face life-threatening injuries, mental health problems and problems from exposure to environmental hazards."," Military service members and veterans have made sacrifices to our country, and they face different health issues than civilians. During their service, they are at risk for various injuries. These injuries can happen during combat, while others involve physical stress to the body. Sometimes the injuries are life-threatening or serious enough to cause disability . Others may not be as serious, but can be painful and affect daily life. Specific types of injuries include Shrapnel and gunshot wounds Lost limbs Head and brain injuries Tinnitus and hearing loss , typically from exposure to noise Sprains and strains Limited range of motion, especially in ankles and knees There may also be a risk of health problems from exposure to environmental hazards, such as contaminated water, chemicals, infections, and burn pits. Being in combat and being separated from your family can be stressful. The stress can put service members and veterans at risk for mental health problems s. These include anxiety , post-traumatic stress disorder , depression , and substance use . Suicide can also be a concern."
Viral Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/viralinfections.html,"Viruses cause familiar infections such as the common cold, but they also cause severe illnesses. Learn more about viral infections and their symptoms."," Viruses are very tiny germs. They are made of genetic material inside of a protein coating. Viruses cause familiar infectious diseases such as the common cold , flu and warts . They also cause severe illnesses such as HIV/AIDS , Ebola , and COVID-19 . Viruses are like hijackers. They invade living, normal cells and use those cells to multiply and produce other viruses like themselves. This can kill, damage, or change the cells and make you sick. Different viruses attack certain cells in your body such as your liver, respiratory system, or blood. When you get a virus, you may not always get sick from it. Your immune system may be able to fight it off. For most viral infections, treatments can only help with symptoms while you wait for your immune system to fight off the virus. Antibiotics do not work for viral infections. There are antiviral medicines to treat some viral infections. Vaccines can help prevent you from getting many viral diseases."
Vision Impairment and Blindness,https://medlineplus.gov/visionimpairmentandblindness.html,"Vision impairment (low vision) and blindness can have many causes. If you lose vision, you can't get it back. But there are ways to manage; learn how."," If you have low vision, eyeglasses, contact lenses, medicine, or surgery may not help. Activities like reading, shopping, cooking, writing, and watching TV may be hard to do. The leading causes of low vision and blindness in the United States are age-related eye diseases: macular degeneration , cataract and glaucoma . Other eye disorders , eye injuries , and birth defects can also cause vision loss. Whatever the cause, lost vision cannot be restored. It can, however, be managed. A loss of vision means that you may have to reorganize your life and learn new ways of doing things. If you have some vision, visual aids such as special glasses and large print books can make life easier. There are also devices to help those with no vision, like text-reading software and braille books. The sooner vision loss or eye disease is found and treated, the greater your chances of keeping your remaining vision. You should have regular comprehensive eye exams by an eye care professional. NIH: National Eye Institute"
Vital Signs,https://medlineplus.gov/vitalsigns.html,"Your vital signs show how well your body is functioning.They include blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate (or pulse), and temperature. "," Your vital signs show how well your body is functioning. They are usually measured at doctor's offices, often as part of a health checkup , or during an emergency room visit. They include Blood pressure, which measures the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your arteries. Blood pressure that is too high or too low can cause problems. Your blood pressure has two numbers. The first number is the pressure when your heart beats and is pumping the blood. The second is from when your heart is at rest, between beats. A normal blood pressure reading for adults is lower than 120/80 and higher than 90/60. Heart rate, or pulse, which measures how fast your heart is beating. A problem with your heart rate may be an arrhythmia . Your normal heart rate depends on factors such as your age, how much you exercise, whether you are sitting or standing, which medicines you take, and your weight. Respiratory rate, which measures your breathing. Mild breathing changes can be from causes such as a stuffy nose or hard exercise. But slow or fast breathing can also be a sign of a serious breathing problem . Temperature, which measures how hot your body is. A body temperature that is higher than normal (over 98.6 F, or 37 C) is called a fever ."
Vitamin A,https://medlineplus.gov/vitamina.html,"Vitamin A is an antioxidant. Vitamin A plays a role in your vision, bone growth, reproduction, cell functions and immune system."," Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin A plays a role in your Vision Bone growth Reproduction Cell functions Immune system Vitamin A is an antioxidant . It can come from plant or animal sources. Plant sources include colorful fruits and vegetables. Animal sources include liver and whole milk. Vitamin A is also added to foods like cereals. Vegetarians, young children, and alcoholics may need extra Vitamin A. You might also need more if you have certain conditions, such as liver diseases, cystic fibrosis, and Crohn's disease. Check with your health care provider to see if you need to take vitamin A supplements. NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
Vitamin C,https://medlineplus.gov/vitaminc.html,"Vitamin C is an antioxidant.  It is important for your skin, bones, and connective tissue. It promotes healing and helps the body absorb iron."," Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin C is an antioxidant . It is important for your skin, bones, and connective tissue. It promotes healing and helps the body absorb iron. Vitamin C comes from fruits and vegetables. Good sources include citrus, red and green peppers, tomatoes, broccoli, and greens. Some juices and cereals have added vitamin C. Some people may need extra vitamin C: Pregnant/breastfeeding women Smokers People recovering from surgery Burn victims"
Vitamin D,https://medlineplus.gov/vitamind.html,"Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. You can get Vitamin D in three ways: through your skin, from your diet, and from supplements."," Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium . Calcium is one of the main building blocks of bone. A lack of vitamin D can lead to bone diseases such as osteoporosis or rickets . Vitamin D also has a role in your nerve, muscle, and immune systems. You can get vitamin D in three ways: through your skin, from your diet, and from supplements. Your body forms vitamin D naturally after exposure to sunlight. However, too much sun exposure can lead to skin aging and skin cancer. So many people try to get their vitamin D from other sources. Vitamin D-rich foods include egg yolks, saltwater fish, and liver. Some other foods, like milk and cereal, often have added vitamin D. You can also take vitamin D supplements. Check with your health care provider to see how much you should take. People who might need extra vitamin D include Older adults Breastfed infants People with dark skin People with certain conditions, such as liver diseases, cystic fibrosis and Crohn's disease People who have obesity or have had gastric bypass surgery NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
Vitamin D Deficiency,https://medlineplus.gov/vitaminddeficiency.html,"A lack of vitamin D (deficiency) can affect your bones and overall health. Learn who is at risk, how much vitamin D you need, and how to get enough."," What is vitamin D deficiency? Vitamin D deficiency means that you are not getting enough vitamin D to stay healthy. Why do I need vitamin D and how do I get it? Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium . Calcium is one of the main building blocks of bone. Vitamin D also has a role in your nervous, muscle, and immune systems. You can get vitamin D in three ways: through your skin, from your diet, and from supplements. Your body forms vitamin D naturally after exposure to sunlight. But too much sun exposure can lead to skin aging and skin cancer, so many people try to get their vitamin D from other sources. How much vitamin D do I need? The amount of vitamin D you need each day depends on your age. The recommended amounts, in international units (IU), are Birth to 12 months: 400 IU Children 1-13 years: 600 IU Teens 14-18 years: 600 IU Adults 19-70 years: 600 IU Adults 71 years and older: 800 IU Pregnant and breastfeeding women: 600 IU People at high risk of vitamin D deficiency may need more. Check with your health care provider about how much you need. What causes vitamin D deficiency? You can become deficient in vitamin D for different reasons: You don't get enough vitamin D in your diet You don't absorb enough vitamin D from food (a malabsorption problem ) You don't get enough exposure to sunlight. Your liver or kidneys cannot convert vitamin D to its active form in the body. You take medicines that interfere with your body's ability to convert or absorb vitamin D Who is at risk of vitamin D deficiency? Some people are at higher risk of vitamin D deficiency: Breastfed infants, because human milk is a poor source of vitamin D. If you are breastfeeding , give your infant a supplement of 400 IU of vitamin D every day. Older adults, because your skin doesn't make vitamin D when exposed to sunlight as efficiently as when you were young, and your kidneys are less able to convert vitamin D to its active form. People with dark skin, which has less ability to produce vitamin D from the sun. People with disorders such as Crohn's disease or celiac disease who don't handle fat properly, because vitamin D needs fat to be absorbed. People who have obesity , because their body fat binds to some vitamin D and prevents it from getting into the blood. People who have had gastric bypass surgery People with osteoporosis People with chronic kidney or liver disease . People with hyperparathyroidism (too much of a hormone that controls the body's calcium level) People with sarcoidosis , tuberculosis , histoplasmosis , or other granulomatous disease (disease with granulomas, collections of cells caused by chronic inflammation) People with some lymphomas , a type of cancer. People who take medicines that affect vitamin D metabolism, such as cholestyramine (a cholesterol drug), anti-seizure drugs, glucocorticoids , antifungal drugs, and HIV/AIDS medicines . Talk with your health care provider if you are at risk for vitamin D deficiency. There is a blood test which can measure how much vitamin D is in your body. What problems does vitamin D deficiency cause? Vitamin D deficiency can lead to a loss of bone density , which can contribute to osteoporosis and fractures (broken bones). Severe vitamin D deficiency can also lead to other diseases. In children, it can cause rickets . Rickets is a rare disease that causes the bones to become soft and bend. African American infants and children are at higher risk of getting rickets. In adults, severe vitamin D deficiency leads to osteomalacia. Osteomalacia causes weak bones, bone pain, and muscle weakness. Researchers are studying vitamin D for its possible connections to several medical conditions, including diabetes, high blood pressure, cancer, and autoimmune conditions such as multiple sclerosis. They need to do more research before they can understand the effects of vitamin D on these conditions. How can I get more vitamin D? There are a few foods that naturally have some vitamin D: Fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel Beef liver Cheese Mushrooms Egg yolks You can also get vitamin D from fortified foods. You can check the food labels to find out whether a food has vitamin D. Foods that often have added vitamin D include Milk Breakfast cereals Orange juice Other dairy products, such as yogurt Soy drinks Vitamin D is in many multivitamins. There are also vitamin D supplements, both in pills and a liquid for babies. If you have vitamin D deficiency, the treatment is with supplements. Check with your health care provider about how much you need to take, how often you need to take it, and how long you need to take it. Can too much vitamin D be harmful? Getting too much vitamin D (known as vitamin D toxicity) can be harmful. Signs of toxicity include nausea, vomiting, poor appetite, constipation, weakness, and weight loss. Excess vitamin D can also damage the kidneys. Too much vitamin D also raises the level of calcium in your blood. High levels of blood calcium (hypercalcemia) can cause confusion, disorientation, and problems with heart rhythm. Most cases of vitamin D toxicity happen when someone overuses vitamin D supplements. Excessive sun exposure doesn't cause vitamin D poisoning because the body limits the amount of this vitamin it produces."
Vitamin E,https://medlineplus.gov/vitamine.html,Vitamin E is an antioxidant. It plays a role in your immune system and metabolic processes. People with certain disorders may need extra Vitamin E.," Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin E is an antioxidant . It plays a role in your immune system and metabolic processes. Good sources of vitamin E include Vegetable oils Margarine Nuts and seeds Leafy greens Vitamin E is also added to foods like cereals. Most people get enough vitamin E from the foods they eat. People with certain disorders, such as liver diseases, cystic fibrosis, and Crohn's disease may need extra vitamin E. Vitamin E supplements may be harmful for people who take blood thinners and other medicines. Check with your health care provider before taking the supplements. NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
Vitamin K,https://medlineplus.gov/vitamink.html,Vitamin K makes proteins for healthy bones and tissues. It also makes proteins for blood clotting. There are different types of vitamin K.," Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin K helps your body by making proteins for healthy bones and tissues. It also makes proteins for blood clotting. If you don't have enough vitamin K, you may bleed too much. Newborns have very little vitamin K. They usually get a shot of vitamin K soon after they are born. If you take blood thinners , you need to be careful about how much vitamin K you get. You also need to be careful about taking vitamin E supplements. Vitamin E can interfere with how vitamin K works in your body. Ask your health care provider for recommendations about these vitamins. There are different types of vitamin K. Most people get vitamin K from plants such as green vegetables, and dark berries. Bacteria in your intestines also produce small amounts of another type of vitamin K."
Vitamins,https://medlineplus.gov/vitamins.html,Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. There are 13 vitamins your body needs; Each has specific jobs.," Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. There are 13 vitamins your body needs. They are Vitamin A B vitamins (thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, vitamin B-6, vitamin B-12 and folate ) Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K You can usually get all your vitamins from the foods you eat. Your body can also make vitamins D and K. People who eat a vegetarian diet may need to take a vitamin B12 supplement. Each vitamin has specific jobs. If you have low levels of certain vitamins, you may get health problems. For example, if you don't get enough vitamin C, you could become anemic. Some vitamins may help prevent medical problems. Vitamin A prevents night blindness. The best way to get enough vitamins is to eat a balanced diet with a variety of foods. In some cases, you may need to take vitamin supplements. It's a good idea to ask your health care provider first. High doses of some vitamins can cause problems."
Vitiligo,https://medlineplus.gov/vitiligo.html,Vitiligo causes white patches on your skin. It occurs when the cells that give your skin its color are destroyed. Learn about possible treatments.," Vitiligo causes white patches on your skin. It can also affect your eyes, mouth, and nose. It occurs when the cells that give your skin its color are destroyed. No one knows what destroys them. It is more common in people with autoimmune diseases, and it might run in families. It usually starts before age 40. The white patches are more common where your skin is exposed to the sun. In some cases, the patches spread. Vitiligo can cause your hair to gray early. If you have dark skin, you may lose color inside your mouth. Using sunscreen will help protect your skin, and cosmetics can cover up the patches. Treatments for vitiligo include medicines, light therapy, and surgery. Not every treatment is right for everyone. Many have side effects. Some take a long time. Some do not always work. NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
VLDL Cholesterol,https://medlineplus.gov/vldlcholesterol.html,"Like LDL, VLDL (very-low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol is a bad cholesterol. Both can lead to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Learn how you can lower your VLDL cholesterol."," What is cholesterol? Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in your body. Your liver makes cholesterol, and it is also in some foods, such as meat and dairy products. Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But having too much cholesterol in your blood raises your risk of coronary artery disease . What is VLDL cholesterol? VLDL stands for very-low-density lipoprotein. Your liver makes VLDL and releases it into your bloodstream. The VLDL particles mainly carry triglycerides , another type of fat, to your tissues. VLDL is similar to LDL cholesterol , but LDL mainly carries cholesterol to your tissues instead of triglycerides. VLDL and LDL are sometimes called ""bad"" cholesterols because they can contribute to the buildup of plaque in your arteries. This buildup is called atherosclerosis . The plaque that builds up is a sticky substance made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, the plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your body. It can lead to coronary artery disease and other heart diseases . How do I know what my VLDL level is? There isn't a way to directly measure your VLDL level. Instead, you will most likely get a blood test to measure your triglyceride level. The lab can use your triglyceride level to estimate what your VLDL level is. Your VLDL is about one-fifth of your triglyceride level. However, estimating your VLDL this way does not work if your triglyceride level is very high. What should my VLDL level be? Your VLDL level should be less than 30 mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter). Anything higher than that puts you at risk for heart disease and stroke . How can I lower my VLDL level? Since VLDL and triglycerides are linked, you can lower VLDL level by lowering your triglyceride level. You may be able to lower your triglycerides with a combination of losing weight, diet, and exercise. It is important to switch to healthy fats, and cut back on sugar and alcohol. Some people may also need to take medicines."
Voice Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/voicedisorders.html,"Overusing your vocal cords can lead to various voice disorders such as polyps, nodules or sores on the cords. These signs may indicate a disorder."," Voice is the sound made by air passing from your lungs through your larynx, or voice box. In your larynx are your vocal cords, two bands of muscle that vibrate to make sound. For most of us, our voices play a big part in who we are, what we do, and how we communicate. Like fingerprints, each person's voice is unique. Many things we do can injure our vocal cords. Talking too much, screaming, constantly clearing your throat, or smoking can make you hoarse. They can also lead to problems such as nodules, polyps, and sores on the vocal cords. Other causes of voice disorders include infections, upward movement of stomach acids into the throat, growths due to a virus, cancer, and diseases that paralyze the vocal cords. Signs that your voice isn't healthy include Your voice has become hoarse or raspy You've lost the ability to hit some high notes when singing Your voice suddenly sounds deeper Your throat often feels raw, achy, or strained It's become an effort to talk Treatment for voice disorders varies depending on the cause. Most voice problems can be successfully treated when diagnosed early. NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
Volcanoes,https://medlineplus.gov/volcanoes.html,"A volcano is a vent in the Earth's crust. Volcanic gas and ash can damage the lungs of infants, older adults, and people with respiratory illnesses."," A volcano is a vent in the Earth's crust. Hot rock, steam, poisonous gases, and ash reach the Earth's surface when a volcano erupts. An eruption can also cause earthquakes , mudflows and flash floods , rock falls and landslides, acid rain, fires , and even tsunamis . Volcanic gas and ash can damage the lungs of small infants, older adults, and people with severe respiratory illnesses. Volcanic ash can affect people hundreds of miles away from the eruption. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a volcanic eruption, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Von Hippel-Lindau Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/vonhippellindaudisease.html,"Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) is a rare, genetic disease that causes tumors and cysts to grow in your body. "," What is Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)? Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) is a rare disease that causes tumors and cysts to grow in your body. They can grow in your brain and spinal cord, kidneys, pancreas, adrenal glands, and reproductive tract. The tumors are usually benign (non-cancerous). But some tumors, such as those in the kidney and pancreas, can become cancerous. What causes Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)? Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) is a genetic disease. It is inherited, which means that it is passed down from parent to child. What are the symptoms of Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)? Symptoms of VHL depend on the size and location of the tumors. They may include Headaches Problems with balance and walking Dizziness Weakness of the limbs Vision problems High blood pressure How is Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) diagnosed? Detecting and treating VHL early is important. Your health care provider may suspect that you have VHL if you have certain patterns of cysts and tumors. There is a genetic test for VHL. If you have it, you will need other tests, including imaging tests, to look for tumors and cysts. What are the treatments for Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)? Treatment can vary, depending on the location and size of the tumors and cysts. It usually involves surgery. Certain tumors may be treated with radiation therapy. The goal is to treat growths while they are small and before they do permanent damage. You will need to have careful monitoring by a doctor and/or medical team familiar with the disorder. NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
Vulvar Cancer,https://medlineplus.gov/vulvarcancer.html,Vulvar cancer is cancer of the labia or skin of a woman's genitals. It is very rare. Having HPV is a risk factor. Get more details here.," Vulvar cancer is a rare type of cancer. It forms in a woman's external genitals, called the vulva. The cancer usually grows slowly over several years. First, precancerous cells grow on vulvar skin. This is called vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN), or dysplasia. Not all VIN cases turn into cancer, but it is best to treat it early. Often, vulvar cancer doesn't cause symptoms at first. However, see your doctor for testing if you notice A lump in the vulva Vulvar itching or tenderness Bleeding that is not your period Changes in the vulvar skin, such as color changes or growths that look like a wart or ulcer You are at greater risk if you've had a human papillomavirus (HPV) infection or have a history of genital warts. Your health care provider diagnoses vulvar cancer with a physical exam and a biopsy. Treatment varies, depending on your overall health and how advanced the cancer is. It might include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or biologic therapy. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Vulvar Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/vulvardisorders.html,"Vulvar disorders are conditions that affect the health of a woman's genitals such as pain, skin conditions, infections or cancer. Find out more."," The vulva is the external part of a woman's genitals. Some problems you can have with the vulvar area include Vaginitis or vulvovaginitis, swelling or infection of the vulva and vagina Skin problems due to allergy Vulvar cancer Vulvodynia, or vulvar pain Symptoms may include redness, itching, pain, or cracks in the skin. Treatment depends on the cause."
Walking Problems,https://medlineplus.gov/walkingproblems.html,"The term ""gait"" refers to how a person walks. An abnormal gait might be caused by an underlying physical condition, disease or injury. Read more here."," What are walking problems? If you are like most people, you walk thousands of steps each day. You walk to do your daily activities, get around, and exercise. It's something that you usually don't think about. But for those people who have a problem with walking, daily life can be more difficult. Walking problems may cause you to Walk with your head and neck bent over Drag, drop, or shuffle your feet Have irregular, jerky movements when walking Take smaller steps Waddle Walk more slowly or stiffly What causes walking problems? The pattern of how you walk is called your gait. Many different diseases and conditions can affect your gait and lead to problems with walking. They include Abnormal development of the muscles or bones of your legs or feet Arthritis of the hips, knees, ankles, or feet Cerebellar disorders , which are disorders of the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance Foot problems, including corns and calluses , sores, and warts Infections Injuries, such as fractures (broken bones), sprains , and tendinitis Movement disorders , such as Parkinson's disease Neurologic diseases , including multiple sclerosis and peripheral nerve disorders Vision problems How is the cause of a walking problem diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will ask about your medical history and do a physical exam. This will include checking your bones and muscles and doing a neurological exam. In some cases, you may have other tests, such as lab or imaging tests . What are the treatments for walking problems? Treatment of walking problems depends on the cause. Some common types of treatments include Medicines Mobility aids Physical therapy Surgery"
Warts,https://medlineplus.gov/warts.html,"Warts or verruca are skin growths caused by an infection with humanpallilloma virus or HPV. Types of warts include common, plantar, genital and flat."," Warts are growths on your skin caused by an infection with humanpapilloma virus, or HPV . Types of warts include Common warts, which often appear on your fingers Plantar warts, which show up on the soles of your feet Genital warts , which are a sexually transmitted disease Flat warts, which appear in places you shave frequently In children, warts often go away on their own. In adults, they tend to stay. If they hurt or bother you, or if they multiply, you can remove them. Chemical skin treatments usually work. If not, various freezing, surgical and laser treatments can remove warts."
Water Pollution,https://medlineplus.gov/waterpollution.html,"Many different pollutants can harm our rivers, streams, lakes, and oceans. Learn how water pollution can cause plants to die and other problems."," We all need clean water. People need it to grow crops and to operate factories, and for drinking and recreation. Fish and wildlife depend on it to survive. Many different pollutants can harm our rivers, streams, lakes, and oceans. The three most common are soil, nutrients, and bacteria. Rain washes soil into streams and rivers. The soil can kill tiny animals and fish eggs. It can clog the gills of fish and block light, causing plants to die. Nutrients, often from fertilizers, cause problems in lakes, ponds, and reservoirs. Nitrogen and phosphorus make algae grow and can turn water green. Bacteria, often from sewage spills, can pollute fresh or salt water. You can help protect your water supply: Don't pour household products such as cleansers, beauty products, medicines, auto fluids, paint, and lawn care products down the drain. Take them to a hazardous waste collection site. Throw away excess household grease (meat fats, lard, cooking oil, shortening, butter, margarine, etc.) diapers, condoms, and personal hygiene products in the garbage can. Clean up after your pets. Pet waste contains nutrients and germs. Environmental Protection Agency"
Water Safety (Recreational),https://medlineplus.gov/watersafetyrecreational.html,"Playing in the water can be fun, but it can also be dangerous. Water safety can help prevent injuries and drowning. Learn how to stay safe."," Playing in the water - whether swimming, boating or diving - can be fun. It can also be dangerous, especially for children. Being safe can help prevent injuries and drowning . To stay safe in the water Avoid alcohol when swimming or boating Wear a life jacket whenever you're in a boat Don't swim alone, or in bad weather Learn CPR Learn to swim and teach your children to swim Supervise your children when they are in the water Prevent sunburns - use plenty of sunscreen"
Weight Control,https://medlineplus.gov/weightcontrol.html,About two thirds of adults in the U.S. are overweight or obese. A weight control strategy can help you keep a healthy weight.," Keeping a healthy weight is crucial. If you are underweight or overweight, or have obesity , you may have a higher risk of certain health problems. About two thirds of adults in the U.S. are overweight or have obesity. Achieving a healthy weight can help you control your cholesterol, blood pressure and blood sugar. It might also help you prevent weight-related diseases, such as heart disease, diabetes, arthritis and some cancers. Eating too much or not being physically active enough will make you overweight. To maintain your weight, the calories you eat must equal the energy you burn. To lose weight, you must use more calories than you eat. A weight-control strategy might include Choosing low-fat, low-calorie foods Eating smaller portions Drinking water instead of sugary drinks Being physically active Eating extra calories within a well-balanced diet can help to add weight. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Weight Loss Surgery,https://medlineplus.gov/weightlosssurgery.html,"Is weight loss surgery for you? Learn about types of surgery including bariatric surgery, bypass surgery, gastric banding, and more."," Weight loss surgery helps people with extreme obesity to lose weight. It may be an option if you cannot lose weight through diet and exercise or have serious health problems caused by obesity. There are different types of weight loss surgery. They often limit the amount of food you can take in. Some types of surgery also affect how you digest food and absorb nutrients. All types have risks and complications, such as infections, hernias, and blood clots. Many people who have the surgery lose weight quickly, but regain some weight later on. If you follow diet and exercise recommendations, you can keep most of the weight off. You will also need medical follow-up for the rest of your life. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
West Nile Virus,https://medlineplus.gov/westnilevirus.html,West Nile Virus (WNV) is a virus spread by mosquitoes. Most people have little to no symptoms. But some have severe symptoms. Learn about prevention.," West Nile virus (WNV) is an infectious disease that first appeared in the United States in 1999. Infected mosquitoes spread the virus that causes it. People who get WNV usually have no symptoms or mild symptoms. The symptoms include a fever, headache, body aches, skin rash, and swollen lymph glands. They can last a few days to several weeks, and usually go away on their own. If West Nile virus enters the brain, however, it can be life-threatening. It may cause inflammation of the brain, called encephalitis , or inflammation of the tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord, called meningitis . A physical exam, medical history, and laboratory tests can diagnose it. Older people and those with weakened immune systems are most at risk. There are no specific vaccines or treatments for human WNV disease. The best way to avoid WNV is to prevent mosquito bites : Use insect repellent Get rid of mosquito breeding sites by emptying standing water from flower pots, buckets or barrels Stay indoors between dusk and dawn, when mosquitoes are most active Use screens on windows to keep mosquitoes out"
Whooping Cough,https://medlineplus.gov/whoopingcough.html,"Whooping cough (Pertussis) is an infectious bacterial disease that causes uncontrollable coughing. Learn about the vaccine, symptoms, and treatment."," Whooping cough is an infectious bacterial disease that causes uncontrollable coughing. The name comes from the noise you make when you take a breath after you cough. You may have choking spells or may cough so hard that you vomit. Anyone can get whooping cough, but it is more common in infants and children. It's especially dangerous for infants. The coughing spells can be so bad that it is hard for infants to eat, drink, or breathe. To make a diagnosis, your doctor may do a physical exam, blood tests, chest x-rays, or nose or throat cultures. Before there was a vaccine, whooping cough was one of the most common childhood diseases and a major cause of childhood deaths in the U.S. Now most cases are prevented by vaccines . If you have whooping cough, treatment with antibiotics may help if given early. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Wildfires,https://medlineplus.gov/wildfires.html,Wildfires are extremely dangerous. They spread quickly and can destroy homes. Learn how to be prepared.," Wildfires are fires that burn out of control in a natural area, like a forest, grassland, or prairie. They often begin unnoticed. They spread quickly, and can damage natural resources, destroy homes, and threaten the safety of the public and firefighters. Humans cause most wildfires. It can be an accident, like when people don't take care of their campfire properly, burn debris, or are careless when getting rid of their cigarettes. It can also be on purpose, which is called arson. Lightning and lava also can also causes wildfires. Wildfires are more common when conditions are dry. High winds can make them spread more quickly. Although there are no guarantees of safety if you live in an area threatened by a wildfire, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan . Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Federal Emergency Management Agency"
Wilms Tumor,https://medlineplus.gov/wilmstumor.html,Wilms' Tumor (or Nephroblastoma) is a rare type of cancer that affects one or both kidneys. Find a list of symptoms and treatments associated," Wilms tumor is a rare type of kidney cancer. It causes a tumor on one or both kidneys. It usually affects children, but can happen in adults. Having certain genetic conditions or birth defects can increase the risk of getting it. Children that are at risk should be screened for Wilms tumor every three months until they turn eight. Symptoms include a lump in the abdomen, blood in the urine, and a fever for no reason. Tests that examine the kidney and blood are used to find the tumor. Doctors usually diagnose and remove the tumor in surgery. Other treatments include chemotherapy and radiation and biologic therapies. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer. NIH: National Cancer Institute"
Wilson Disease,https://medlineplus.gov/wilsondisease.html,Wilson disease is a disorder that prevents your body from getting rid of extra copper. Too much copper can affect the liver and nervous system.," Wilson disease is a rare inherited disorder that prevents your body from getting rid of extra copper. You need a small amount of copper from food to stay healthy. Too much copper is poisonous. Normally, your liver releases extra copper into bile, a digestive fluid. With Wilson disease, the copper builds up in your liver, and it releases the copper directly into your bloodstream. This can cause damage to your brain, kidneys, and eyes. Wilson disease is present at birth, but symptoms usually start between ages 5 and 35. It first attacks the liver, the central nervous system or both. The most characteristic sign is a rusty brown ring around the cornea of the eye. A physical exam and laboratory tests can diagnose it. Treatment is with drugs to remove the extra copper from your body. You need to take medicine and follow a low-copper diet for the rest of your life. Don't eat shellfish or liver, as these foods may contain high levels of copper. At the beginning of treatment, you'll also need to avoid chocolate, mushrooms, and nuts. Have your drinking water checked for copper content and don't take multivitamins that contain copper. With early detection and proper treatment, you can enjoy good health. NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
Winter Weather Emergencies,https://medlineplus.gov/winterweatheremergencies.html,Winter weather emergencies can lead to health and safety challenges. Take actions to protect yourself by having a disaster plan.," What kinds of problems can severe winter weather cause? Winter storms can bring extreme cold, freezing rain, snow, ice, and high winds. Staying safe and warm can be a challenge. You may have to cope with problems such as Cold-related health problems, including frostbite and hypothermia Household fires and carbon monoxide poisoning from space heaters and fireplaces Unsafe driving conditions from icy roads Power failures and loss of communication Floods after the snow and ice melt How can I prepare for a winter weather emergency? If there is a winter storm coming, there are things you can do to try to keep yourself and your loved ones safe: Have a disaster plan which includes Making sure that you have important phone numbers, including for your health care providers, pharmacy, and veterinarian Having a communication plan for your family Knowing how to get reliable information during the storm Prepare your home to keep out the cold with insulation, caulking, and weather stripping. Learn how to keep pipes from freezing. Gather supplies in case you need to stay home for several days without power If you plan to use your fireplace or wood stove for emergency heating, have your chimney or flue inspected each year Install a smoke detector and a battery-operated carbon monoxide detector If you have to travel, be sure you have an emergency car kit with some basic supplies like An ice scraper A shovel Cat litter or sand for better tire traction Water and snacks Extra warm clothing Jumper cables First aid kit with any necessary medicines and a pocket knife A battery-powered radio, a flashlight, and extra batteries Emergency flares or distress flags Waterproof matches and a can to melt snow for water If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
Women's Health,https://medlineplus.gov/womenshealth.html,Women have unique health issues such as pregnancy and menopause. Health issues that affect both men and women can affect women differently. ," Women have unique health issues. And some of the health issues that affect both men and women can affect women differently. Unique issues include pregnancy , menopause , and conditions of the female organs. Women can have a healthy pregnancy by getting early and regular prenatal care . They should also get recommended breast cancer, cervical cancer , and bone density screenings. Women and men also have many of the same health problems. But these problems can affect women differently. For example, Women are more likely to die following a heart attack than men Women are more likely to show signs of depression and anxiety than men The effects of sexually transmitted diseases can be more serious in women Osteoarthritis affects more women than men Women are more likely to have urinary tract problems NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
Women's Health Checkup,https://medlineplus.gov/womenshealthcheckup.html,"Women's health checkup exams and screenings may include a pelvic exam, pap test, mammogram, clinical breast exam and testing for HPV. "," Regular health exams and tests can help find problems before they start. They also can help find problems early, when your chances for treatment are better. As a woman, you need some special exams and screenings . During your checkup, your health care provider will usually do: A pelvic exam - an exam to check if internal female organs are normal by feeling their shape and size. A Pap test - a test to check for cancer of the cervix , the opening to a woman's uterus. Cells from the cervix are examined under a microscope. A clinical breast exam - to check for breast cancer by feeling and looking at your breasts. Your health care provider may also recommend other tests, including a mammogram or a test for HPV ."
Wounds and Injuries,https://medlineplus.gov/woundsandinjuries.html,"Cuts, scratches, bruises, and lacerations are types of injuries of the skin or soft tissues. Find first aid tips and how to deal with accidents here."," An injury is damage to your body. It is a general term that refers to harm caused by accidents, falls , hits, weapons, and more. In the U.S., millions of people injure themselves every year. These injuries range from minor to life-threatening. Injuries can happen at work or play , indoors or outdoors, driving a car, or walking across the street. Wounds are injuries that break the skin or other body tissues. They include cuts, scrapes, scratches, and punctured skin. They often happen because of an accident, but surgery, sutures, and stitches also cause wounds. Minor wounds usually aren't serious, but it is important to clean them. Serious and infected wounds may require first aid followed by a visit to your doctor. You should also seek attention if the wound is deep, you cannot close it yourself, you cannot stop the bleeding or get the dirt out, or it does not heal. Other common types of injuries include Animal bites Bruises Burns Dislocations Electrical injuries Fractures (broken bones) Sprains and strains"
Wrist Injuries and Disorders,https://medlineplus.gov/wristinjuriesanddisorders.html,"Wrist pain can be caused by repetitive motions, injuries or other problems. Learn about various wrist disorders and injuries here.  "," Your wrist connects your hand to your forearm. It is not one big joint; it has several small joints. This makes it flexible and allows you to move your hand in different ways. The wrist has two big forearm bones and eight small bones known as carpals. It also has tendons and ligaments, which are connective tissues. Tendons connect muscles to bones. Ligaments connect bones to each other. What are the types of wrist injuries and disorders? Some of the more common types of wrist injuries and disorders are Carpal tunnel syndrome , which happens when a nerve that runs from your forearm into your palm becomes squeezed at the wrist Ganglion cysts , which are noncancerous lumps or masses Gout , which is a form of arthritis caused by a buildup of uric acid in your joints Fractures (broken bones) Osteoarthritis , the most common type of arthritis. It is caused by wear and tear of the joints. Sprains and strains , which are injuries to ligaments and injuries to muscles or tendons Tendinitis , inflammation of a tendon, usually due to overuse Who is at risk for wrist injuries and disorders? Certain things can put you at higher risk of having a wrist problem, including Doing sports, which can put you at risk for injuries and puts stress on your wrist. For example, you may fall on your outstretched hand when you are skating or snowboarding. Your wrist could be injured while doing contact sports. And other sports such as gymnastics and basketball can strain your wrists. Doing repetitive wrist motions, such as typing on a keyboard, working on an assembly line, or using power tools. Having certain diseases. For example, rheumatoid arthritis can cause wrist pain. What are the symptoms of wrist injuries and disorders? The symptoms of a wrist problem can vary, depending on the problem. A common symptom is wrist pain. Some other possible symptoms include swelling, a decrease in wrist strength, and sudden numbness or tingling. How are wrist injuries and disorders diagnosed? To make a diagnosis, your health care provider Will take your medical history and ask about your symptoms Will do a physical exam, including checking your wrist strength and range of motion May do an x-ray or other imaging test May do blood tests What are the treatments for wrist injuries and disorders? Treatments for wrist pain depends on the type of injury or disorder. They may include Resting your wrist Wearing a wrist brace or cast Pain relievers Cortisone shots Physical therapy Surgery Can wrist injuries and disorders be prevented? To try to prevent wrist problems, you can Use wrist guards, when doing sports that put you at risk for wrist injuries In the workplace, perform stretching exercises and take frequent rest breaks. You should also pay attention to ergonomics to make sure that you are using the proper wrist position while working. Make sure that you get enough calcium and vitamin D to keep your bones strong"
X-Rays,https://medlineplus.gov/xrays.html,X-rays are a type of radiation called electromagnetic waves. X-ray imaging creates pictures of the inside of your body.," X-rays are a type of radiation called electromagnetic waves. X-ray imaging creates pictures of the inside of your body. The images show the parts of your body in different shades of black and white. This is because different tissues absorb different amounts of radiation. Calcium in bones absorbs x-rays the most, so bones look white. Fat and other soft tissues absorb less and look gray. Air absorbs the least, so lungs look black. The most familiar use of x-rays is checking for fractures (broken bones), but x-rays are also used in other ways. For example, chest x-rays can spot pneumonia. Mammograms use x-rays to look for breast cancer. When you have an x-ray, you may wear a lead apron to protect certain parts of your body. The amount of radiation you get from an x-ray is small. For example, a chest x-ray gives out a radiation dose similar to the amount of radiation you're naturally exposed to from the environment over 10 days."
Yeast Infections,https://medlineplus.gov/yeastinfections.html,A yeast infection (also called candidiasis) is fungal infection that affects different body parts. Get the facts on it and associated problems.," Candida is the scientific name for yeast. It is a fungus that lives almost everywhere, including in your body. Usually, your immune system keeps yeast under control. If you are sick or taking antibiotics, it can multiply and cause an infection. Yeast infections affect different parts of the body in different ways: Thrush is a yeast infection that causes white patches in your mouth Candida esophagitis is thrush that spreads to your esophagus, the tube that takes food from your mouth to your stomach. It can make it hard or painful to swallow. Women can get vaginal yeast infections, causing vaginitis Yeast infections of the skin cause itching and rashes Yeast infections in your bloodstream can be life-threatening Antifungal medicines get rid of yeast infections in most people. If you have a weak immune system, treatment might be more difficult."
Zika Virus,https://medlineplus.gov/zikavirus.html,Zika is a virus that is spread by mosquitoes. Most people who get the virus do not get sick. A blood test can tell if you have Zika.," Zika is a virus that is spread mostly by mosquitoes. A pregnant mother can pass it to her baby during pregnancy or around the time of birth. It can spread through sexual contact. There have also been reports that the virus has spread through blood transfusions. There have been outbreaks of Zika virus in the United States, Africa, Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, parts of the Caribbean, and Central and South America. Most people who get the virus do not get sick. One in five people do get symptoms, which can include a fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis ( pink eye ). Symptoms are usually mild, and start 2 to 7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. A blood test can tell whether you have the infection. There are no vaccines or medicines to treat it. Drinking lots of fluids, resting, and taking acetaminophen might help. Zika can cause microcephaly (a serious birth defect of the brain ) and other problems in babies whose mothers were infected while pregnant. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that pregnant women do not travel to areas where there is a Zika virus outbreak. If you do decide to travel, first talk to your doctor. You should also be careful to prevent mosquito bites : Use insect repellent Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs, and feet Stay in places that have air conditioning or that use window and door screens Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
